Up to but not including message 275 21/6/97

A Report on Tékumel

                         Being a Collection of the

                              Observations of

Fíru Bá Yéker



[Translator's Introduction

Fíru Bá Yéker appears to have been a member of a secret society of some
kind which served as a sort of support group for visitors to Tekumel from
the planes beyond. This document is a collection of information which Bá
Yéker transmitted by some device of the ancients (mention of Net Servitors
etc. has been removed for clarity) to the members of this society. That the
society was centred upon the worship of Lord Ksarul is apparent both by its
very nature and by the fact that the members called themselves after the
prison of that most mighty and awe-inspiring of the Gods. Surely no one
outside of his temple would have dared to use the name of the Blue Room in
their everyday correspondence! That they were not part of the inner circles
of the temple is demonstrated by the lack of information on the doctrines
of the temple even in those sections which deal with the Slumbering Prince
of knowledge.

Be that as it may, the central figure in these messages (Lo, the many
hundreds of them) is Fíru Bá Yéker and many clues point to this scholar as
having eye witness accounts of Tekumel's important events over the entirety
of its history, even from some time before the fall of the Ssu, dreaded
enemies of man, untold eons ago. How this is possible is not clear but
obviously great sorcery, and even pacts with those whom it is better never
to name let alone have truck with, is involved. It is significant that Fíru
Bá Yéker’s name appears on at least one translation of the Book of Ebon
Bindings.

Thus it has been decided that only the observations of this honourable and
indeed venerable sage shall be put down in this scroll. Many of the others
in this society appear to be asking advice of Fíru Bá Yéker in their
messages indicating that he is the main font of knowledge. There are some,
it is true, who seem to be fellow travellers, or at least henchmen of Bá
Yéker’s (Bob Alberti and Chris Davis seem also to have sold their souls in
exchange for unreasonable quantities knowledge about Tekumel). Perhaps the
observations of such people will be included in a future version of this
report.

Fíru Bá Yéker appears to have produced other items for "special"
foreigners; a Journal is mentioned in several places as is a Sourcebook
(perhaps this should be translated as "Guidebook for the respectable
foreigner". These references have mostly been removed as it is unhelpful to
include directions to documents which are not available.

Many of the members of this clique seem to have derived some profit in
selling tales of their time in our plane and frequent mention is made in
the original of characters and story lines. References to a "game" of some
sort would appear to be a mistranslation and have been changed to "story"
on the grounds that they are in connection with mention of characters.
Again these have been rendered by your humble translator into slightly more
mundane terms (friends, people the author knew etc.) with the aim of not
jarring the eye of the reader's mind with strange or unfamiliar concepts
for no furtherance of understanding.

What is not included here is most of the information dealing with the great
mysteries of the universe. These have been left out to protect those
foolish enough to want to use information so obviously not intended for
mortal ken. Also omitted are the sections dealing with the civil war of
2365 onwards as these missives will hopefully form a separate report once
this one is complete.

Further comments from your hétpetokoi will also be included within square
brackets.]

Everyday Life

Architecture

Temples

The old Journal article on the Temple of Ksarul had a little sketch (mine)
of one of the temples, and there have been others. The external walls of
most temples tend to be carved and painted with mythological scenes. Not
completely from top to bottom, the way the great temples of South India
(e.g. the Minakshi temple in Madurai) are crammed with sculpture, but in
long friezes of statuary, bas reliefs, and mosaic done in bands along the
upper area of a temple wall.

The temples differ, too: Lord Hru'u's temples usually have only plain outer
walls, with single statues placed here and there; Lord Vimuhla's walls are
often plain, although in the eastern Sokatis style (influenced by
Salarvyani baroque art), great processions of priests, gods, kinds, and
mythological figures line the upper registers and crawl all over the domes
and porticoes. Lady Dlamelish is strangely demure about her temples: they
tend to be of one storey only, entered by climbing broad stairs under
lowering colonnades, and sculpted high up with grotesque gargoyles and
depictions of her various Aspects. Inside, her shrines are a riot of what
one might term NC17 art! Lord Thumis prefers stately processionals of
priests and mythological scenes from the Epics, while Lord Hnalla is fond
of geometric designs in eye-boggling detail. Sarku's temples are ponderous,
usually brown or ochre stone, with twisting, fearsome images of the Worm
Lord placed at gateways and on pylons around them. Lord Belkhanu and Lord
Karakan use various types of friezes or statuary, mosaics, and bas reliefs
that differ widely from place to place, although as one might expect, Lord
Belkhanu's colours tend to be yellow, while Lord Karakan prefers crismson.
Lady Avanthe's shrines are often of translucent blue glass, with scenes
made of glass or coloured crystals inset into the walls. Her fountains are
legendary, particular in Katalal and Thraya. This is about all that can be
said in so short a space.

Temples differ in style and decoration from place to place and also from
era to era. A temple built in "Late Ensgvanyali" style will look like a
floating vision of shimmering glass, while the blocky, heavy, Bednalljan
genres appear fearsome, ponderous, and awesome.

Ceremonial Dress

The "24 Forms" of ceremonial dress are used whenever there is a formal
party, with specific Forms being worn for specific types of parties. The
9th Form is used for family and clan celebrations. The 19th Form would be
"de rigeur" only for very high clan, very wealthy, and very ultra-snobbish
and fashion-conscious aristocrats!

Child Naming Ceremonies

Child-naming ceremonies are usually performed at puberty or slightly
thereafter, differing from place to place only by a few months. These do
vary from temple to temple, clan to clan, place to place, and period to
period, however. At the moment, in Jakalla, most clans hold "coming out"
parties for their young sprouts, with food, wine, and entertainment. The
"centrepiece" receives good wishes and small gifts from relatives and
friends, and a priest of the person's faith may be asked to offer prayers
and a small sacrifice (a lock of the candidate's hair on a flame altar for
Vimuhla, a bit of bread and a morsel of meat from the feast for certain
other temples -- etc.). An elder chosen by the candidate, the parents,
senior clansmen, or all of the above than reads the new name from a scroll,
and this is then ceremonially taken to the clan's record room and inserted
into the clan's membership records.

In other cities, there are slightly differing ceremonies. There are even
survivals of "puberty tests" in the temples of Avanthe, Dlamelish, and
their Cohorts in some locales, with girls being ceremonially deflowered on
an altar while parents, friends, and the priesthood fondly watch and
applaud. Boys may be given a willing and experienced slavegirl similarly.
Vimuhla and Karakan both have scarier rituals, particularly in Khirgar and
the north, where long quests into the desert, ceremonial "duels" (which the
candidate always wins -- but may be lightly scarred), etc. are common. You
don't need to ask about Sarku and Durritlamish...

The word for the name choosing-ceremony seems to be khatunjalim(-ikh). The
"jalim" part is the same as Kolumejalim(-koi): an ancient Engsvanyali root
for "to choose, select." This root is not much used in modern Tsolyani,
where "to choose" is now "repul." "Khatun(-ikh)" is still used for "name,"
of course. Note the "non-honorific" suffix "-ikh") is added to these words
when the noun has no prefixes.

Tlakotani

The Tlakotani -- even rural "farmer" clansmen -- honour the God-Emperor
more than others. A symbol of the Seal is set up in a large hall, an open
field, etc., and the candidate and his/her friends of about the same age
all join in singing the rituals of homage to the Emperor. Then they jump
over a low bonfire or brazier of coals, and pass through a representation
of the "Jade Arch" made of coloured paper. The name is officially given,
and a representative of the Omnipotent Azure Legion (a fellow-Tlakotani, in
most cases) is called upon to "deliver the name to Avanthar." This may or
may not be done in reality.

In cases of very high and very wealthy Tlakotani -- those nearest the
Imperial sub-lineage, Avanthar may even send a member of the Omnipotent
Azure Legion with a gift of a gold coin, a gilded scroll with the
candidate's name inscribed and illuminated with colours, and a little cake
of Imperial incense (that used in the Hall of the Petal Throne itself). If
the child is heir to lands or estates, their title deeds and documents are
displayed in the feast-room, along with hereditary possessions (weapons,
armour, Kaing-standards, etc.).

Chlen Beasts & Their Hide

The Ssu and Hluss seem to have had access to the Chlen before humans
arrived on Tekumel. The original beast seems to have been native to the Pe
Choi worlds, and there must have been interstellar trade of some sort back
then.

The hide is not really "shell-like" or "chitinous" in feel -- rather more
like thick layers of callused "skin". These peel off in sheets of varying
thickness. They are quite unlike the Ssu integument which "unrolls" like a
paper towel from a roll, all soft and flexible and smelling of something
like cinnamon. As far as I know, nobody has ever found a use for Ssu-hide
or been able to tan it.

The "baths" in which Chlen hide is soaked differ in the amount and type of
chemicals used, and the methods of then cutting, moulding, and finishing
each piece differ, too. These tanneries are usually far outside each city
because of the smells and pollution. The secrets of production are not
really "deep" secrets: almost any determined person can learn them. But the
Chlen-tanning trade is limited to a few special clans, which are not
considered especially "honorable." Hence, most Tsolyani would think it
beneath themselves to learn or experiment with these techniques.

City Life

Tekumelani cities are very complex, sociologically, but no book can give
the actual feel of one of these places: the opulence and wealth on the one
hand, and the abject unbearable poverty on the other. Beauty and elegance
are all around, but there are also ugliness and congestion and decay.

Clanhouses

Clanhouses vary, Jakalla, Bey Su, and Avanthar are very tight for space.
Most members reside outside these cities in large clanhouses on their
agricultural lands. Only 40-50 people may actually live in a clanhouse in a
city at any one time, plus servants, slaves, and hangers-on.

In Khirgar, clanhouses are tall and narrow because Old Khirgar is a small,
walled enclave. In Urmish and Katalal, clanhouses are larger, more open,
with gardens and parks, courtyards for trade and crafts, stables for
Chlen-beasts, pens for Hma and Hmelu, servant quarters, slave quarters, and
facilities such as kitchens, pantries, wine cellars, scriptoria,
ecord-rooms, refec-tories for dining, etc. When you visit a clanhouse in
one of these "open" regions, you first come to a solid wall all around the
place, with a high gate emblazoned with the clan's symbols. Inside, there
is an open court for "parking" of palanquins, where slaves and escorts can
sit and wait under shaded colonnades, with food and drink, foun-tains,
etc., and more gates that lead off to other courts where stores are kept,
where crafts are created, where the clan transacts its usual business(es),
etc. Going on into the main house, you find an atrium where chamberlains
come up and ask whom you wish to see. Halls lead off toward guest rooms,
family rooms for individual lineages and family quarters, and to the public
areas: feasting halls (closed most of the time unless there is a party),
council rooms, trophy rooms (where ancient standards, awards, documents,
etc. are kept for the edification of young clansmen), and the like. Every
clanhouse is differently organised and arranged.

There are also private houses outside of the clanhouses. Some families and
lineages prefer to live by themselves, and so cities also contain sections
where personal homes can be purchased. These are smaller versions of the
clanhouses, with little courtyards, atria, bedrooms, guestrooms, etc. -- as
much and as fancy as the owner can manage.

Chores & Household Work

Cooking

In more wealthy clanhouses the food and chores are done by slaves or hired
servants. Some of the more penurious of one's clan-brothers and sisters may
also be paid by the clan to oversee these tasks -- and to perform them, if
need be. Younger brothers and sisters also may be required to labour in
clan enterprises or do household tasks as a matter of discipline and
training. Those who are elderly or indigent are also supported by the clan
in return for a few hours of work: supervision, watching over flocks,
pruning the gardens, etc. Labour for one's clan is not considered "lowly,"
as it seems to have been among the aristocracy of 19th Century Britain.
Physical work is good for a child, the clan elders say, and
responsibilities make good clansmen. Only in the very wealthy and anciently
noble clans does one find slaves performing every task and serving every
morsel of food, etc. Even so, these clans often put younger clans-brothers
and sisters to work as discipline, training them in the crafts, arts,
business, accountancy, sciences, etc. at the same time.

In poorer clans, and in the rural clanhouses of the great clans, too, there
is a general tradition of hard work for all members. Herding a Chlen-beast
is great therapy!

Cooks and other specialists may also be hired from outside, particularly
when some elaborate production is desired. Fancy parties require the best
food, entertainment, costumes, etc. that the clan can afford, and it is
considered noble (and hence "good") to bring in these experts from outside:
not only cooks and pastry-makers, but also vintners, perfumers, makers of
fancy toiletries, mimes, singers, musicians, dancers, acrobats, athletes,
gladiators, flower-arrangers, and a multitude of other trades and crafts
are required -- and are lavishly laid on by the great clans. A Tsolyani
feast in the Clan of the Golden Bough in Bey Su is a memorable event
indeed!

Each clanhouse has its refectory, as does each temple, and army barracks.
Clan members (and their guests) can go in at almost any time (except late
at night when the kitchens are closed) and find food. The quality and
nature of this repast varies from clan to clan, city to city, etc. Members
wander in, eat alone or with friends and family, and wander out. There are
standard breakfast, lunch, and dinner times, but no particular serving
order or difference in the foods. A breakfast may thus consist of Dna-grain
porridge, bread, Chumetl, sweet milk, fruit, etc., and these same foods may
be provided at lunch and dinner, with variations. Fancier dishes are found
at higher clanhouses, of course, and feasts often involve the most
incredible confections and dainties.

Clothes & Costumes

As I have said somewhere or other, the masks of the Ksarul priesthood are
worn only for ceremonial reasons: certain rituals demand them. One doesn't
wear heavy robes and masks in everyday life -- there would quickly be a lot
of deaths from heat exhaustion! Ksarul priests (and priestesses) wear their
fancy (hot and airless!) masks during various temple ceremonies and then
strip them off (panting) and go about their usual businesss attired in no
more than a kilt, tunic, and sandals!

Same reason why full plate armour is NOT worn when out for a walk, or when
marching along a Sakbe road. More people have dropped along the wayside
because of this than I can count.

Courtship, Love, Sex & Marriage

Unlike our own "individualist" society, Tekumel is strongly based on
societal ties. Nobody exists in a cultural vacuum on Tekumel. A quick roll
in the hay is fine on Tekumel, and marriages between totally opposed
religions and clans are not unknown. If you want approval, however, you
should seek connections that both clans approve.

The relationship between a Karakan worshipper and a follower of Vimuhla,
for example, is more easily possible than some others, provided neither
party is fanatic about religion. The temples of the two "war" gods are
actually fairly friendly these days, although their prime protagonists,
Princes Eselne and Mirusiya, are likely to come to blows sooner or later.

Weddings depend upon wealth and clan traditions. Weddings are not
particularly "religious," although priests may be invited to offer prayers
and eulogies. See the (Zocchi) Sourcebook, pp. 42 and 48. If neither party
has prior commitments, and if both are free and independent (Aridani for
her), then they can organise the wedding much as they wish.

Love in a Foreign Clime

Concerning marriage when one or both parties is a long way from home and
clan, you cannot expect to obtain all the fancy gifts and other things that
might be available in a bigger city. If you want clan approval, you'll both
have to return home and present yourselves to your clans, parents, and
relatives. They'll organise feasts, parties, etc. and arrange for whatever
wedding festivities you two might desire -- if it comes to that. Quick
affairs are a lot easier and do not carry much social opprobrium, and two
can just "try it on for size" without worry, as long as they have a large
supply of Lisutl-root.

If your clan is represented in a city, your clansmen can stand in for your
parents and relatives.

Deformity & Infirmary

Blue Eyes

Blue eyes opens a whole new can of worms (no Sarku pun intended!). Blue
eyes are considered a curse and an abomination, and you may be shunned even
if from Sea Blue. I dimly remember from my history lessons a prince who had
blue eyes and was not allowed to compete in the Kolumejalim because he was
likely to prove to be a misfortune for the Empire!

My suggestion for those afflicted: go to one of the better temples of Lady
Dlamelish and see if they can fix the colour of your eyes with either
spells or some kind of dye. (The latter may affect your eyesight, so use it
sparingly!) The dye is found in Jannu and is made from the crushed root of
a vine that has deep violet leaves. I don't know the Jannuyani name, but
the locals will probably know what you want. A tincture of this stuff is
used like eyedrops. As I said, it is not particularly good for one's sight.

Ditlana

The Emperor designates one or more cities as candidates for Ditlana,
relying upon the priesthoods, omens, astrology, and religious symbolism.
Once a city was chosen, its inhabitants were moved a block or so at a time
from their homes to temporary lodgings, to other clanhouses, to relatives
in other cities, etc., and the empty block was given the urban renewal
treatment. Knock it down, flatten it, cover over holes, tunnels, and pits,
and strengthen the new "ground-level" floor with masonry, then build new
buildings atop this according to plans and needs submitted by the owners.
Thus, for example, if the Red Sword clan decided to put up a new clanhouse
in the empty space where the old one had stood, they prepared plans (at
their own plus Imperial expense), hired masons and builders, and consulted
with city planners to develop the best building possible. The great clans
could do this since money from other places was available: all the cities
of the land were never done at the same time! Materials, transport, labour,
all had to be pre-arranged. This is no easy task, not even for a society as
rigidly controlled as Tsolyanu. The custom has now fallen behind schedule
by many years, due to economic, political, and military pressures. The
population has grown, and the country is too unstable to allow for the
expenditure of the huge amounts of wealth, time, materials, and labour
needed. As an example, Jakalla is now seriously overdue, but with the war
in the north dragging on, and Prince Rereshqala digging into the treasury
for funds for his army, it is unlikely that the priesthoods will be
listened to for some time to come. Just before the current war, the Red
clans of Tumissa (Red Sword, Red Sun, etc.) were considering uniting to
"do" parts of old Tumissa, but these ideas are now on hold while the
princes fight out the succession to the Petal Throne. It's likely that the
powers that be will get back to Ditlana again, once a new Emperor has been
chosen, and the old stability is restored.

Ditlana is still spoken of as an important social renewal, one that must be
done from time to time in order to maintain the nation. A lot of
conservatives are deeply Oconcerned that this has not been possible in
recent years. Everybody is waiting for Dhich'une to be ousted from
Avanthar, and a new -- and proper -- Kolumejalim to be held; then you'll
see the various city fathers headed off to Avanthar with plans and budgets
and offers of clan support.

Domesticated Animals

The Hmelu and the Hma fill the places of goats and sheep. Hmelu milk (and
sometimes the much thicker and more odoriferous Hma's milk) fills the
position of cow's milk on earth. The Kaika bird fills the ecological niche
of the chicken (turkey, etc.). There is no direct equivalent of the cow.
Large amounts of meat are usually got from the Tsi'il, which cannot be
completely domesticated. No pigs!

Duelling Outside the Hirilakte Arena

Duels can be fought anywhere. Two farmhands can "go at it" out behind the
haymow; two servants can thrash each other in the scullery -- etc. Setting
up impromptu Hirilakte arenas is not done, however; duelling is a "noble"
act, in Tsolyanu, and only those who are noble can sponsor contestants in
the arenas. In practice, there are many lower-level gladiatorial schools
and entrepreneurs who pander to the tastes of the Tsolyani public, much as
there were in ancient Rome. These employ real gladiators to amuse the
"Great Unwashed," and their services are paid for by noble patrons who want
to appeal to public opinion.

I have no record of a village headman holding a Hirilakte Arena-style duel
or making a public fair out of a duel. Hirilakte Arenas are ancient and
traditional, and such an impromptu event would lack the nobility and
historical tradition needed. The local Governor might also step in and
refuse permission to go ahead with such a thing, too; somebody, he might
say, has to uphold moral standards in these degenerate times!

Private duels are fought, of course, and there is no harm if the locals
want to bet on the outcome. As a one-time event, this is quite normal and
permitted. The Headman will only intervene if the law is being broken in
some way, and both private duels and gambling are legal.

Folklore

The Weaver of Skeins

The "Weaver of Skeins." is a common figure in most of the Five Empires (I
think the Salarvyani may not have him..?). No myths or legends are told of
him, and in this regard he is rather like the "Sandman" or the "Tooth
Fairy," although Fate or Luck might better represent his role. He is indeed
a metaphorical construct, rather than a person; he is just called
"Elitokoi" ("the (noble) Weaver").

I think the Five Empires enjoys the visual, personalised concept of a
(faceless) human who weaves a great tapestry, patterning the skeins and
putting meaning and design into the universe. The Tsolyani in particular
are great visualisers -- not abstract thinkers very much -- and the Weaver
appeals to them greatly.

Missum (Death)

"Death" is a metaphorical construct quite apart from the demon Missum, who
brings "missum" (death).

Subadim The Sorcerer

Subadim is the protagonist of many legends, mostly later Ensvanyali or
early Classical Tsolyani, but he is also rumoured to have lived long before
these under other names. His visit to the Home of the Gods, and his search
for the Egg of the World on Thenu Thendraya Peak are stories known to every
schoolchild. He is said to have possessed a magic cup, and also a magic
ship that moved without oars or sails and was made of scintillating white
metal. He also wrote a book about the Farther Planes beyond the Pylons; it
was titled "Realms Beyond the Triple Knot," and it is now lost. The last
copy is said to have been destroyed when the armies of Emperor Trakonel I
burned the temples of the One Other in Tsolyanu.

Hrugga

The epic of Hrugga is clearly a legend built up around a real warrior. His
exploits run on to several volumes, and there are at least two recensions
of these, giving different dates, places, and adventures. The stories are
in Engsvanyali verse in the longest recension and are episodic in nature.
Hrugga was apparently one of the Heroes of the Age, groups that the Gods
choose to defend the structure and stability of Tekumel's Plane. These
small groups are picked at crisis points along the main timeline, whenever
there are threats (usually from the Pariah Gods) to the Skein of Reality.
They are given specific tasks and objectives. If they win against the foes
the enemies cast up against them, then all is well and the universe goes
on. If they fail, then there is catastrophe and doom and darkness across
the lands. It is said that the failure of the Engsvanyali hero Kokun led to
the sinking of Ganga and the rise of the northern seas to become the
central interior plain of Yan Kor.

Hrugga is said to have gambled with Avanthe, "won the world, two moons, and
half as much again," but nobly continued playing until he lost it all back
so as not to embarrass her. (This is from a Bednalljan court poet from the
time of Nayari -- so he is at least that ancient.) He is also reported
crushing the demon Qu'u on Thenu Thendraya Peak, zapped the Demon of Death
(Missum) on Dormoron Plain in defence of the heroes of Stability, and
fought the giant Nirusama in a terrible battle that is said in the legend
to have lasted "three ages and an aeon."

I have not put these epics together in written form. The reader will have
to piece them together from whatever your Tsolyani friends tell you.

Meals

Those of like social status may gather at midday when the grerat Tunkul
gongs signal the midday prayers for Avanthe, Hnalla, and Karakan. The
bureaucracies may actually employ food-preparation clans to bring in pots
of stew, bread, etc., which departmental staff members pay a few Qirgals
for -- or a monthly lunch bill. Soldiers and guardsmen have regular
"messes," to which they go when off duty to eat and rest. Priests may
return to their temples, eat with comrades and clan brothers/sisters, or
buy food from the street vendor clans. Those near enough to their
clanhouses may go back there and eat in the regular refectories.

Higher officials may gather in somebody's office to eat better quality
lunches prepared by the food preparation clans. These are a regular feature
of some bureaucratic offices, cities, and regions but are less common in
others. It is hard to state a single fast rule. Of course, people don't eat
with those who are too much higher or lower than themselves -- a few levels
of difference is all that is normally permitted. Some foreigners find this
somewhat unpleasant: Senior Priest X is not likely to eat with Guardsman Y,
even though they have adventured together. People don't eat with those of
unlikely alignments either: a high official who serves Lord Sarku is not
going to get chummy with a person of his own rank and status who worships
Lord Hnalla. Should someone have no lunch or anyone to eat with, the most
that one might do is politely point him/her toward a food preparation
clan's premises -- or suggest that such and such a street vendor makes
excellent gegresa.

Friends, acquaintances, and relations from other clans may drop in -- not
just to eat but also to discuss business, politics, etc.

People don't normally just "drop in" unless there is a purpose, such as
business, etc. Friends do get together, as do members of groups, and social
life may include post-dinner entertainment, drinking, gaming, etc. All of
this is done within the rather rigid confines of Tsolyani society, of
course. People do invite others of their own status to dinner. Getting
together with casual acquaintances or outsiders requires a clear purpose,
of course.

Some of the poorer sectors of society do not have "lunch," however, but
only a pre-dawn meal on bread, Dna-grain porridge, vegetables, and a little
meat stew, with copious gulps of Chumetl -- and then off to work. During
the day there may be brief breaks to munch on the equivalent of a leek or
chunk of bread. The main meal is then eaten in the evening at the
clanhouse, temple, etc.

Mind Powers

These are quite common, especially at higher levels. Thus, many officials,
nobles, and wealthy people have hired telepaths, just as they have their
own bodyguards and attendants. Just as Merlin was really an employee and
closely guarded "expert" for King Arthur (compare Von Braun and other
scientists in our day), so the hired telepaths and sorcerers are paid to
detect outside meddling and spells and keep their master safe.

Such people are relatively infrequent -- and greatly valued when they do
appear. Sometimes they are not only valued but also kept as virtual
prisoners (in very luxurious circumstances, however) in order to serve
their masters and work on private projects. The Imperium has a regular
corps of these people working for the Omnipotent Azure Legion, just as the
Yan Koryani have theirs in the Surgeth, the Livyani in the Vru'uneb, and
the Mu'ugalavayani in the Company of the Mourners in Sable.

Mind reading is not so common at lower levels of society: e.g. a criminal
case could be decided in a second if a telepath is available, and if the
defendant has no defensive abilities; but this isn't often done unless the
case is important. This is quite common for the very upper echelons, or for
national security reasons. Not common at all for the lower classes, minor
criminals, etc.

Peasant Life

Some of the poorer sectors of society do not have "lunch," but only a
pre-dawn meal on bread, Dna-grain porridge, vegetables, and a little meat
stew, with copious gulps of Chumetl -- and then off to work. During the day
there may be brief breaks to munch on the equivalent of a leek or chunk of
bread. The main meal is then eaten in the evening at the clanhouse, temple,
etc.

Politics

Group Dynamics

Most people, in this world as on Tekumel, are not really fanatics and can
tolerate neighbours, colleagues, and even close friends who do not share
their precise brand of politics, religion, etc. One just does not discuss
controversial topics at polite dinner parties. The people of Tekumel do
wear more garments and insignia to distinguish their faiths, clans, and
allegiances than do most of us on Earth, and it is thus easier to see who
is who. Rather like different army uniforms, not just a discreet little
cross worn on a chain around the neck. Oh, people don't wear the heavy
ritual priestly garb pictured in earlier works on Tekumel: the tall
helmets, the plumes, the smiling silver masks, and the like. Just as Her
Majesty doesn't always wear the great crown of state and carry the sceptre
and the orb, and the Pope doesn't walk around his private apartments in
mitre and crosier, so do the folk of Tekumel attire themselves informally
in kilt and sandals, perhaps a little vest or tunic, with perhaps a clans
symbol at the throat or embroidered on the garment.

People tend to be "time servers," and not "fanatics." It is thus possible
for laity and clergy of different faiths to co-operate together, socialise,
and even intermarry. The only time one gets hostility is when there are
real cross purposes and conflicting objectives. Sometimes one does meet
cranks and fanatics and truly unpleasant people, of course, who cannot
resist insults and gibes at those who belong to different faiths or
persuasions. Such rude persons are rarely included in mutli-faith parties
sent out to seek some objective that will benefit the various patrons.
There are fanatics, of course: the arrogant Vriddi, the aloof and secretive
Ito or Domed Tomb people, for example. Even devotees of Lady Dilinala can
be fanatics, unwilling to allow others the opportunity to speak or act in
any un-Dilinala-like fashion.

Most of the expeditions on which adventurers are sent are made up of people
who are not fanatics -- or who are at least polite and clever enough not to
let it show. When it comes time to divide up the loot or seize the goal
sought, however, some of these people may well show their true colours and
exert themselves! Insults, gibes, and "humour" are kept to a minimum in
Tekumelani society anyway, unlike many American groups I have known. It's
too dangerous. When push comes to shove, however, there may be friction or
even open hostility, but this is relatively rare since patrons generally
know their people and their objectives, and do not send out an "ecumenical"
party to acquire something that might be better suited for another patron
organisation.

In my experience, thus, it is possible to have people of different faiths
and political persuasions in the same group. It is better if all are of
related groups, clans, lineages, and the like, but a mixed group works if
people are willing to make it work -- and a patron who finds that some
member has created unnecessary problems is not likely to be pleased with
that member. Right now, the mission to the Valley of Kashkomai (northeast
of Sokatis) contains Vimuhla, Wuru, and Ksarul people. There is one Karakan
worshipper and even a priest of Ketengku. A contingent of Dlamelish priests
have just entered the valley to set up a shrine, and some of the bodyguard
consists of Dilinala warrior women. There is also a Pe Choi major domo, and
a band of Pechani mercenaries has hired on with the Wuru priests. Many of
these factions will probably come to hostilities, if an objective of real
importance is discovered.

In the past, we have experimented with parties of different complexions. We
have tried very diverse groups and also groups made up of a single clan
from a single lineage in a single city who all share the same faith. (The
latter is easier, of course.) The one thing we found that does not work is
a discrepancy in social status: nobles and peasants, or free people and
slaves. Tekumelani society is too class-conscious for roles that are too
far apart on the social ladder. One can tolerate a priest or priestess of a
hostile deity far more easily than a noble can bear to rub shoulders with a
slave, artisan, or commoner. If a party of "lower-class" people is wanted,
thus, we make sure that it consists of such persons only, and that contact
with arrogant nobles and clergy is kept to a distant minimum.

Essentially, a good and viable group for "adventuring" should contain
enough people of diverse faiths and backgrounds to provide different
skills, but not so diverse that members cannot tolerate each other or
practice forbearance. We have had trouble with Vriddi members who saw their
roles as vehicles to express social and religious snobbery, and we have
given up trying to include Sarku worshippers in parties containing most
other faiths. Dlamelish and Hrihayal tend to create social/sexual problems
for some, too, while all others seem to get along a little better. Of
course, fanatics of all persuasions are generally not included: e.g. a
strongly missionising priest of Thumis is almost as unpleasant as a stern
and uncompromising follower of Chegarra or Gruganu.

Political Parties & Organisations

There are no formal "political parties" -- no "New Hampshire Primaries" or
party caucuses. There are occasional organised meetings, however, at
clanhouses, temples, etc. ,where like-minded folk gather to discuss the
issues of the day. It is often just a matter of common knowledge that Mr. X
or Ms. Y is a member of such-and-such a faction and favours a particular
person or course of action.

There is some official "joining," of factions, particularly in the temples,
where "semret" (really semi-secret) societies are so prevalent and
powerful. The army, too, has its groupings and staff meetings. In the
clanhouses, those of the same orientation often get together at dinners,
feasts, etc., and then political matters are discussed and planned. As far
as I know, nobody has devised political buttons or bumper slogans for their
palanquins! A clan symbol or religious icon worn with one's costume often
carry all the information needed to know who is a partisan of what.

Political organisation at higher levels is structured, the Princes,
priests, and high clan leaders may gather occasionally to discuss a matter;
the recognised leaders devise solutions and strategies; these are discussed
and outlined to those who need to carry them out; and orders are issued
through several levels down to the lads in the streets. Clan and religious
obligations, "noble action," and personal loyalties play important roles.
Often those at lower levels have no idea who the eventual giver of their
orders may be, but there are authentication procedures at every level in
order to maintain security.

Political rallies, as such, do not exist, but street demonstrations are
frequent, with people marching, cheering, carrying torches and icons, etc.
in favour of this or that leader or point of view. There is little "social
content" in the usual Western European sense -- no anti-abortion marches,
or "Free Poor Willy" things. Many of these public ceremonies are
accompanied by singing, chanting, dancing, drumming, music, people carrying
censers of incense, others with torches, and all sorts of emblems, military
standards, and religious icons. Somebody breaks out casks of beer and wine
for the marchers, and then there is a party -- often a riot. I think Lord
Tekunu hiQolyelmu described one such incident in one of his dispatches.

Pottery

There are nearly as many styles of pottery decoration as you find on Earth.
Red with white slip, black with white slip, beautifully painted
mythological scenes, carved mythological scenes and glyphs, giant urns with
rows of painted figures, tiny humorous pots with animal heads -- all
different, from place to place, time to time, style to style, und so
weiter...

Bey Su potters are currently doing a glossy black style with light blue
slip and red or ochre glyphs. These are done as plates with high rims,
four-legged pots, ewers with tall necks shaped like Qasu birds or other
creatures, round mug-like cups with handles shaped like animals' tails,
etc. Jakalla is going through an Engsvanyali revival phase at the moment:
elegant glassware, slender three legged pots in bird forms painted in
brilliant colours, slender jugs with incised glyphs and pictures from
mythology, flat plates with low rims, painted with mythological scenes and
"dirty pictures" (the Hrihayal-Dlamelish influences, I guess). Tumissa
prefers dull reds and ochres, Chene Ho an odd brownish yellow clay that is
found only near that city, Fasiltum a dull black with bright orange-red
glyphs of the Flame Lord.

Sea Travel

Hiring a Ship

Passenger and cargo vessels are usually the larger square-rigged Tnek.
These hug the coasts and travel from port to port during daylight hours,
with only a few longer stretches requiring night travel. Most skippers also
have regular pilots whom they hire on for voyages in unfamiliar waters. The
faster war-galleys have too little space and too restricted food supplies
to do much open-sea travel. There are certain well-known crossings,
however: e.g. the one across from Salarvya to Haida Pakala, which is about
600 Tsan at its best point. There are regular pilots and navigators who
know these waters well and who are familiar with seasons, tides, currents,
and dangers. Otherwise, there isn't a lot of ocean sailing - though
Magellan, Columbus, and others made difficult voyages over open waters in
our own history. It's not impossible; it's just perilous and
time-consuming! For people who just want to travel from Jakalla to Kheiris
or to Tsatsayagga, it's best to get a cabin on one of the regular
merchantmen that perform this kind of service.

Advice for Navigators

There are "famous" creature-infested regions: e.g. the "Shoals of the
Akho," south of Salarvya. Sea travel is not as dangerous as I inadvertently
made out in some of my previous writings . In the interests of providing an
exciting story, I had sea monsters popping up everywhere! There are more
and bigger leviathans on Tekumel than on old Earth, but not so many that
travel would become impossible!

Sea travel is one of the best ways of getting people and cargo from one
place to another relatively fast, and if it were as difficult as I had made
it out to be, there would be a great decrease in commerce!

Stick to the coasts for cargo and passenger travel, and hire a good pilot
for open-water voyages. Very few navigators would ever try to sail out to
the Isle of Eyes or the lost little city of Mardza on the Isles of Ill
Wind!

Navigators have simple compasses (a magnetised needle and a pot of oil).
Steering by the positions of the moons and planets is common, and there are
ephemerides that tell the sailor where these bodies will be in the sky on
any given night of the year. Since there are no stars, there are no fixed
reckoning points (like Polaris on Earth), but the configurations of the
heavenly bodies give considerable information, which, combined with
experience and navigational know-how, usually get the traveller from one
place to another.

Take care - and beware the deadly Akho of the Deeps!

Slums

Slums are common: small flats of two or three rooms, with cooking
facilities in one room, sleeping quarters for as many as a dozen men,
women, and children in another, and a sort of "common room" for guests and
general meeting and greeting. Many slums contain still smaller and meaner
quarters: barely hovels, people sleeping on the landings of staircases in
ancient, dilapidated, stinking buildings, holes made by pulling bricks out
of an ancient city wall, or just ragged awnings spread over a crevice in a
building on the street. These are not nice places. Dirt, starvation,
disease, and ugliness are the rule here, and every year the Imperium (and
similar agencies in other countries) make efforts to clean them up, move
the inhabitants out, find them jobs, and help. These efforts are haphazard
and never very effective, unfortunately, and so nearly every year one sees
food riots in the great cities. I think Lord Tekunu described one of these
that he witnessed in Jakalla. Bey Su is worse, and troops are sometimes
brought in to quell such disturbances.

Vermin

Rats were left behind when mankind went out to the stars. Thus, when
Tekumel was first colonised, rodents were not brought along. A few earth
insects, etc. did make it over the centuries, but these were either
exterminated by local insect-like species, or else did not survive for
other reasons.

Right now, there are a number of small species that do live in granaries
and eat roots and fruits. Some of these are mammalian, others more like
amphibians or insects. There is a squelchy little beast down in
south-western Tsolyanu that gets into storage bins and literally rots the
grain -- it turns black and liquid and smelly. It is called a Banyé (with
the usual noun ending: Banyékh). The Epeng, which is like a string of
brownish beads is a serpent-like creature that lives in fruit storage areas
-- and stings painfully. There are black and bright red Epengyal, too. A
furry weasel-like creature that eats underground tubers and roots is the
Meshóshikh. All of these are controllable but bothersome.

Cats and dogs do exist on Tekumel, and the cat is still used to control
pests. There is not a large variety of dog and cat sub-species, however:
orange, black, and grey "tabbies," Siamese-like cats, etc. are the
commonest. but others are occasionally found. Large hunting dogs, terriers,
and a few other canine breeds are common as well.

Insect pests are common, as are rusts, moulds, and other plant diseases.
These are often wiped out by equally virulent and hostile life-forms.
Tekumel is a regular melting pot of species from many, many worlds, as you
know. These have fought and competed, and now one finds that a sort of
balance is being struck.

The Telepath Network

The network of telepaths facilitates the spread of important news, although
this method is rather uncertain and whimsical. One town in southeastern
Tsolyanu (near Thraya) got the news of the death of Emperor Hirkane within
a few hours, while Thraya itself did not get a telepathic message (or any
other kind) for a couple of weeks after the event! Once received, the
Palace of the Realm quickly spreads the news through public criers, written
broadsides, announcements in the temples, and messengers to smaller towns
and outlying settlements. All of this takes time.

News is a slow and rather confused business. The telepathic networks often
suffer from delays, interference, garbled messages, and other mix-ups. The
Palace of the Realm is sometimes also unwilling to release news that may
cause disruptions and unrest, and the politics of the situation thus must
be sorted out first.

The Underworlds

My friends often find materials too decayed to identify, much less use. The
Underworlds also vary from very dry (as in ancient Egypt) around Khirgar,
to soggy and totally mildewed (around Penom).

With sorcery, a dry climate, and lots of luck, the contents of the
Tsu'urumyal can be made to last. My friends have found sections of
important "Tsu'urum" completely underwater -- and others preserved by the
climatisation devices of the great Ancients still okay after 60,000 years.
Of course, this cannot apply to the Engsvanyali or to the Tlakotani Second
Imperium -- they came long after the Great Ancients, the Latter Times, etc.
etc. were all dead and buried. Coins, stones, gold, and a few other
uncorrodeable materials are all that is likely to remain. "Magic" can be
applied, of course, to make things last longer (cf. the relevant Thumis
spell for books).

The late Engsvanyali through early Second Imperium remains are the most
likely to have decayed. I have seen people touch beautiful chests,
woodcarvings, etc. and seen them slump into piles of dust. The earlier
Engsvanyali stuff is more durable (some of the techniques of the Latter
Times seem to have been maintained), while the Bednalljans have left
largely stones, gold (and other metals that do not decay, either naturally
or by sorcery), books written on leaves of gold, etc. The Llyani and the
Three States of the Triangle have left almost nothing but stones, coins,
gems, and fallen monuments.

Iron and untreated steel appear as heaps of corrosion. Only magic can
preserve it. Almost all organic goods simply fall to dust and blow away.
Chlen-hide becomes large blackish flakes and disappears. Pottery and
magically protected artifacts are another story. Bodies fall to dust,
unless protected by some spell, cloth and paper are instant goners when the
tomb is opened!



Religions

General Observations on Religions

The Concordant

The Concordat applies to above-ground relationships. Priests must thus be
circumspect, courteous, and respectful to all other priests of the many
deities. A snide remark now and then is permitted, but nothing that can be
taken as cause for legal action or violence. Below ground, in the ancient
labyrinths, "nobility" means defending one's temple, shrines, property,
etc. in any way one can, and violence is winked at there -- though not
always an automatic response. Just as in this world, violence is a
"sometime" response to provocation or to obtain a goal; imagine a meeting
of a Russian and an American in Paris at the height of the Cold War. There
may be no co-operation and very little friendliness, but courtesy and
proper behaviour are very important.

History & Pavar's Pantheon

Various ancient deities have become syncretically amalgamated into the
personae of the 20 deities of Pavar's pantheon. I think I could delve
around and come up with a few Bednalljan deities that did not survive
Pavar's revolution -- but which "resurfaced" later as "Aspects" of
conceptually-related deities in Pavar's theology. This is similar to
developments on earth: e.g. the Great Goddess of ancient Europe and the
devotion to the Virgin Mary, the saints of Catholicism and the gods of
pre-Hispanic Mexico. I can dredge up all sorts of comparisons with Hinduism
and other religions as well.

The syncretic process in India (and Tekumel) continues throughout history
unabated. Study the development of the "gods" in ancient Egypt. This
process is active in Tekumelani life at various levels of complexity,
depending upon the social, educational, and economic levels of the people
concerned.

The real thinkers of Tekumel are not satisfied with "cookie-cutter
deities." Unfortunately, such creations tend to satisfy millions of average
worshippers. Go listen to the sermons in almost any "average" Christian
church -- or Muslim mosque, etc. etc. There is much more to the cookie than
what comes out of the cutter.

Temple Life

The temples are usually quite strict with acolytes. Acolytes usually live
in the temple dormitories while in training, although wealthy kids do get
to go home a lot, if their families live in the same city. Money may be
wonderful, but where would you go to live? "Apartments" ("flats") are not
common, particularly for young people who have clans and families. People
without clans/families may have to live somewhere in the city, but the
quarters they may have to rent would not be very nice and might bring about
a good deal of social eyebrow-raising. The temples have large contingents
of slaves, many living in temple quarters. The priests can order these
about, although acolytes can only give orders within permitted limits.
Slaves do most of the "chores": dishes in the refectory, laundry,
room-cleaning, etc. But don't command a slave girl to sleep with you --
unless your temple preceptor gives permission or orders you to do so first.
(He/she may feel it is "healthy" for a young person to have such a bedmate
-- especially in the temples of Avanthe & Dlamelish.)

Pariah Deities

History & Suppression

Probably the Pariah Deities were "pre-Pavar" and even "pre-Ksarul" in his
Bednalljan form. I could dig up the history of the Pariah sects, but
ensuing generations have so tinged all of their opponents with "horror" and
"revulsion" that few know of their existence at all.

The Pariah Deities were never all that popular; the average Tsolyani was
much more comfortable with accommodating gods and goddesses who fulfilled
his/her personal needs without a lot of threatening theology. There were
probably no more than a Pariah temple or two in any big city of the
post-Engsvanyali age. The Priestkings themselves had pretty well contained
the Pariah Gods' followers, suppressed, oppressed, and depressed them to
the point that the weaker members were mostly gone (i.e. had joined other
sects or were just "in name only" worshippers). There were still enclaves
of Pariah Deity worship, particularly in remote areas, the mountains north
of Tsolyanu, the north-eastern areas around Hekellu and up through Sa'a
Allaqi, etc. Most of these were traditional: local villagers who followed
the old religions because their forefathers had done so. There were only a
few real practitioners by the time the early Tsolyani Emperors decided that
enough was enough.

The temples of the Pariah Deities were not secret until the very end.
During Engsvanyali times, they were open and busy, though never as popular
as those of Pavar's pantheon. They operated fairly openly right up until
Trakonel's troops made it clear that this was the end of the line for them.
Then the inner circles did whatever they could to disappear, to hide under
other names and identities, to pretend they were members of the other
sects, and to erase any memory of their being worshippers of these deities.
Now they have become secret, rather like covens of Satanists in this day
and age. A few ancient traditions are still observed, and it is said that
there are still connections between these sects and some of the temples of
Change -- but who knows?

The Imperium -- and the Mu'ugalavyani, Yan Koryani, and Livyani as well --
have efficient secret police. In these large, rigidly structured polities,
the presence of police spies is taken for granted. The Five Empires
probably shared information and made plans together to destroy these
uncooperative alien influences. Consider the role of the F.B.I. and the
C.I.A. in modern American society: it would be very hard to hide a major
movement, one that was quite inimical to the status quo. Informers would
quickly point to the existence of wrongnesses and inconsistencies in the
body politic, and further investigation would swiftly reveal the presence
of the "secret" movement. Once discovered, infiltrators and double agents
would soon find most of the important leaders and bring on the rigours of
the inquisition! Innocent people are always hurt in such operations -- ask
anybody who was anywhere near the Left during the McCarthy Era in the
United States -- but the goal of eliminating the opposition does get done.

It took about 30 years during the long reign of Trakonel I "The Blazing
Light." to eradicate the worship. It was not finished then, of course, and
in fact it still goes on.

Relationship to Pavar's Pantheon

Pavar's pantheon does not necessarily include only "opposites" (in human
terms). The principle of stability/fertility/fecundity/cycles seems to the
Tsolyani to be quite opposite to change/personal-pleasure/ephemerality/.
The Pariah Gods, if they can be understood at all, seem to seek total
NULLITY, rather than just the opposite of some human emotion/concept. They
are not interested in any single aspect of Being but rather in Non-being.
They thus seek "Non-existence" as opposed to "Existence" (at least in our
human terms). They are hard to fit into human concepts at all, and their
only appeal is to greed (for wealth, power, etc. etc.), which they are
willing to help their followers achieve for a time, until they finally
decide to make their move and end all matter on the Planes they invade.
This is not a happy fate, but their human adherents are willing to risk the
chance that this horrible denouement will come later, rather than sooner.
Millions of their followers, it is said, live out their lives, achieve
wealth and power, and die perfectly natural deaths without ever having to
face the invasion of their monstrous deity and the erasure of all being on
their Planes.

The Pariah Gods are an interesting bunch. They are not, strictly speaking,
"opposites" of any of Pavar's deities, however.

Public Knowledge of Pariah Deities

You won't find any more in Tsolyani schoolbooks on the Pariah Deities than
you will find about Islam in American kids' literature. The Index of the
Inquisition is fairly inefficient compared to the Palace of the Priesthoods
in Bey Su, which has seen to the sequestering of ANYTHING relating to the
Pariah Deities to the "locked stacks."

Current Activities

She Who Cannot be Named is now apparently interested in Tekumel's sector of
interdimensional space-time. During calmer times, the Imperium would act
swiftly to extirpate any revival of the Pariah Deities' sects: destruction
and death, impalement and confiscation, as ruthless and complete as
necessary, would be the order of the day. Even very powerful members of the
Pariah Deities' sects, such as the wicked Lord Menggan hiTirrune, find it
difficult to appear in public, now that their activities are known.

Dra

Dra is somewhat of a problem. His basic function is to focus upon the
worship of the Divine Light of Lord Hnalla. He thus cares nothing for any
of the Planes he is on, devoting himself so utterly to his Master that he
is almost unconscious of what is around him -- or happening to him. His
role in our lives is as an example: a paragon of divine concentration and
singleminded devotion.

Priests of Dra engage in rigorous denial of their surroundings. This is why
others joke about them -- on Tekumel as people do here. These ascetics are
in some ways akin to the Hindu Sadhus and Sanyasi who sit motionless so
long that it is said that moss grows upon them! -- Or hold their arms up in
the air until the arm atrophies and cannot be lowered again. This is NOT an
easy life, nor is it one of porcine laziness, as understood by some players
over the years. Rituals consist of Sufi-like chanting of verses from Lord
Hnalla's traditional hymns. This is often done in solitude, but one also
finds small groups of these priests (and a few priestesses) performing
these rituals together. Temples to Dra are built not by his worshippers but
by followers of Lord Hnalla, as a sort of charitable act: a gift to people
who are considered holy and who cannot or will not build shrines
themselves.

The "average" non-ascetic Dra worshipper comes from a clan and lineage that
historically worships Dra. There are very few converts, of course, and most
of these are ascetics and zealots who wish to devote their entire spiritual
and physical being to the worship of the Divine Light. Those who are not so
spiritual-minded go on with their humdrum, mundane lives. They also serve
as caretakers for their more ascetic brethren, arranging for food,
cleanliness, lodging, etc. as their contribution to the worship of their
strange, aloof god.

As said above, temples to Dra exist in almost every large city. They are
usually built and maintained by the temple of Hnalla (often adjoining or
next door), and food, candles, sleeping mats, etc. are supplied by
less-ascetic worshippers and well-wishers. After all, Dra is the Devoted
One, the Lord of Hymns, He Who is Blinded by the Eternal Light. It is
considered "noble" for others -- members of such temples as Avanthe,
Dilinala, Belkhanu, Qon, and even Chegarra -- to sanction and support Dra's
role, making small offerings of food, money, clothing, etc. to Dra
worshippers who need these things.

A temple to Dra is usually just a square room, sometimes with small
storerooms attached, where supplies are kept. Sleeping mats are scattered
here and there, and the most ascetic (and hence physically helpless)
worshippers and "clergy" sit wherever they wish, facing towards the temple
of Hnalla. Caretakers from the Dra-worshipping clans move among these
people, feeding, washing, gently moving and massaging limbs, and caring for
their charges.

Dra figures in several of the epics: he is mentioned as "with" Lord Hnalla
at the Battle of Dormoron Plain; he praises Lord Hnalla in a rather
beautiful Engsvanyali hymn during the hero Hrugga's battle against the
Demon Qu'u. He is seen in a more active role in one of the Jakallan
song-cycles about the Heroes of the Age -- but this seems to be apocryphal
and not part of the canon.

He has only one Aspect: himself. He never needs to appear in other forms,
it is said, because he must always concentrate upon the Divine Light. This
makes him quite insensible of his physical appearance.

Dra is very important in the scheme of Tsolyani religion, but he is not a
deity who lends himself easily to action-adventure-seeking!

Ksarul

Doctrines

The outward doctrines are those that concern rituals, prayers, ceremonials,
and all that goes with them. There is much reliance on mythology, the
stories of Dormoron Plain, the Blue Room, and that sort of thing. The Inner
Doctrines cannot be characterised, of course, because they are kept a dark
secret with all sorts of mind-bars and mental traps to protect them. I
don't have access to them myself, nor does Arjai hiVaisoner. Arjai's wife,
Chitlasha, does know, but she cannot confide even in Arjai. Whenever these
matters come up, I simply tell the questioner that "those concerned are
told what they need to know and do accordingly." No details. I know this is
difficult for inquisitive American players who are used to being "in" on
all of the secrets of any endeavour in which they engage, but it is better,
perhaps, that they do not know. Some of the doctrines of the Dark Lords are
actually somewhat unsettling.

Relationship To The Pariah Deities

Ksarul is clearly different in both nature and mythology/theology from the
Goddess of the Pale Bone. Their goals are different, too, if one follows
the Inner Texts.

Wuru

Worship of Wuru and Hru'u is commoner in some cities and regions than in
others. Around Purdimal, for example, many of the average people follow
Lord Ksarul, yet there are villages, enclaves, and clans that traditionally
belong to Wuru and/or Hru'u. This is just as true in Penom, in Jaikalor,
etc. in varying degrees. Other deities are similarly represented. In a
given clanhouse, too, a few families, lineages, and individuals may follow
a deity who is not the "popular" deity of that group: e.g. a follower or
two of Sarku, Hru'u, etc. may belong to the Tlakotani clan, to the Golden
Sunburst, etc. His/her fellows may think the person weird or misguided, but
in ecumenical Tsolyanu, mst folk will not raise overt objections -- of
course, if a favourite son or daughter of a Hnalla-worshipper suddenly
shows predilections for Lord Sarku or Lady Dlamelish, there may be some
family arguments and even a little ear-boxing! But a determined convert is
usually left to follow wherever his/her faith leads.

I can't give numbers of worshipers as percentages easily since enclaves of
devotees are so intermixed and confused. I'd estimate that Lord Hru'u's
temple is indeed one of the smaller sects, in terms of population, but its
members go back to very ancient roots. The same is true of Lord Wuru.

I have had several friends over the years who have chosen to follow Wuru or
Hru'u. At the moment, Lord Kotaru (I forget his lineage name) of the Sea
Blue Clan is prominent in our group.

Non-Human Deities

General Observations

The gods of the "friendly" races have been tailored to fit Pavar's theology
to some extent. The Pe Choi, the Shen, etc. have "light/dark" or
"stable/change" or some other dichotomy that more or less suits. The
Tinaliya are, however, monotheists with no interest in "gods."

The hostile races (Hluss, Ssu, Shunned Ones) have deities of their
own. Quite obviously, these races do not care a whit for Ksarul or Sarku or
any of the human deities. Not even for the dreaded Pariah Deities; the
Hluss and the Ssu are very much afraid of THEM.. It is not possible to talk
to these races about "gods" or "magic" because communication is impossible,
lacking, or always refused. As far as I know, there have been NO
exceptions.

Clans

Clan Co-operation & Travel Arrangements

Clans are often allied to other clans: Golden Sunburst to White Stone to
Green Bough, etc. Arrangements are made to pay for services back and forth:
so much grain for so many loads of tooled leather, so much dried river fish
for so many urns of oil, etc. When people travel, they usually inquire
about sleeping, etc. facilities along the way. Their clans will then make
arrangements in advance: send a writ to a clanhouse in Setnakh, for
example, saying that "Our excellent brother so-and-so will be arriving in
Setnakh on the 20th of Didom; can you provide him with accommodations? Or
fix him up with an acceptable equivalent?" Anybody too poor or humble to
deserve this treatment must stay in whatever shop or dwelling that will
have him/her. There are brothels in the town, and one can always arrange to
stay in them -- with or without the "extras."

Thus, let's suppose a member of Golden Sunburst has to break his journey in
Setnakh. His options are: get his clan to arrange in advance for him to
stay in one of the better clanhouses in the town; go there and take his
chances knocking on doors; write to his clan's business agent or
intermediary and get that person to make arrangements; write to the local
mayor (Mraduharetokoi); he can take his own servants, tents, and equipment
and cook along the way, stopping on the platforms at the base of certain
Sakbe Road towers; or -- if he is so minded -- he can stop at one of the
numerous brothels and relax! Since there are no "inns" or "hotels"
(particularly in a little place like Setnakh) these are his only options.

Clan Organisation

Lineages

Actual lineages in a clanhouse may number no more than 5-10, while
wandering visitors may represent other lineages from other cities. The
situation is always fluid and full of possibilities.

Relationships Between Lineages

Things can get difficult or easy, depending upon personalities and
political and economic factors. Each city, each clanhouse, and each
particular situation is different. In one city two lineages may be
political/social allies, but in the next city they are at each other's
throats, due to personality clashes or some historical event. A few cases
are nation-wide and semi-permanent, but those are rare.

Joining a Clan

To join a clan, one must be invited, usually as a result of some years of
loyal service to that clan, plus friends who are already clan members, plus
gifts of money or other goodies to the clan.

Marriage

Marriages tend to remain within the same or closely related clans, although
LOTS of exceptions exist, particularly with second, third, etc. marriages
that include one wealthy or higher class mate who marries "down" into a
lower clan/lineage in order to get a beautiful wife or a handsome husband.
The clan and lineage of the child is usually that of the father, but is he
is the "lesser" member of the union, he may get his wife to negotiate
membership in her (=higher) clan for the children. If the union is about
equal, the couple may agree that a first child belongs to the husband's
clan, a second to the wife's, etc. -- or ask an omen from the gods, roll a
pair of dice, etc. Sometimes economic, familial, and other considerations
come into play, too.

With aridani wives in the south these matters are the subject of
negotiation. If the woman is important to her clan or to her temple, she
may insist on the children being members of her own clan. If the father is
an unknown (a slave, a humble guardsman, a fellow clansman, etc.), the
child will probably be left to her without dispute -- unless she doesn't
want it at all, and in that case, the child may end up a "poor relation"
clan-member, working in one of the clan's crafts or businesses.

If the father is better known or more important, the children may be put
into his clan. A particularly handsome child (male or female) may also be
handed over to one of the parents' temples as a ward, to be educated and
brought up as a priest or priestess.

These and similar questions often come before the courts of the Palace of
the Realm since clans and individuals may disagree.

The ancient lineages often intermarried and mingled across clan lines. This
is true of many but NOT all lineages: e.g. Ito, Tlakotani, and Vriddi are
rarely found in other clans than their own. On the other hand, Qolyelmu,
Chaishyani, and Tlelsu are rather more widely spread among the high clans.
Vaisoner, Tirrune, and a few others are more often members of Ksarul- and
Hru'u- centred clans than others, but they are almost always in "high" or
"very high" clans. The minor lineages are similarly found mostly in less
important clans.

Clan Status

Clans are not fixed in terms of their relative status in all areas. A very
high clan always gets respect and deference, but it may not dominate the
local rconomy at all. Thus a lower clan, like "Ewer of Gold Outpouring,"
for business reasons happens to be powerful in Setnakh. Its members will
always show respect to members of clans higher than itself, but when it
comes to business, it is not going to be pushed aside. In time, its leaders
hope to thrust their clan right up into the ranks of the "Very High" clans
by sheer economic pressure. There are lots of intrigues and clever little
plots.

Clan houses interact with courtesy, always basic in the Five Empires.
Respect and deference to superiors, courtesy to equals, condescension to
inferiors -- and rudeness to any who are outside of the chain. The balance
is delicate, and it is best that foreigners allow some Tsolyani friend or
host to deal for them until they get used to it. Most of my friends now
understand the "ladder" and act quite decorously. A few still do not. Once
in awhile somebody reacts TOO deferentially: e.g. a character addresses a
humble peasant as "my lord," much to the latter's puzzlement and suspicion.

The clan is what counts for "seating" at banquets, ceremonies, etc. Within
the clan, deference goes to higher versus lower lineages, then to age.
Gender does not play much of a part.

No proper high clan would consider taking a small clan into its membership
-- its public reputation would collapse! No amount of money or private
sleeping around could bring this about! Suruna may be given money, lands, a
clanhouse of his own, etc. by his master's clan, but getting his small clan
adopted into a higher clan is pretty remote. Individuals do get adopted,
particularly if they do things that would gain the clan respect and
reputation, but a whole small clan? The questions about etiquette within
the newly constituted united clan would be just horrendous, especially if
the little clan were truly lower than the larger one in status.

Nobility & Inheritance of Titles

There is a link between clan and title of course. Middle and low clans
almost never have members who hold these ancient titles, while the
wealthiest and most prestigious clans (e.g. Sea Blue, Golden Bough, Golden
Sunburst, Vriddi, Might of Ganga, Cloak of Azure Gems, etc.) include many
title-holders, each tied by tradition, family, etc. to clan land holdings.

Getting a new title is VERY difficult, if not impossible. The current
Emperor, Lord Dhich'une whose throne-name is "Eternal Splendour," has
issued none at all - perhaps because the worshippers of Lord Sarku were
conspicuously ignored in both the Bednalljan and Engsvanyali peerages and
were granted few such titles. As a result, the Sarku-worshipping clans tend
to disdain such honours.

Most title-holders are males, but there are many women (particularly in the
matrilineal north). There have even been one or two Pe Choi and a Pachi Lei
in the distant past. None of the other nonhuman races has been so honoured.

I think I have had only one acquaintance in all my years on Tekumel who
actually achieved the title "Pachukoi." He had performed such services for
the Empire that old Hirkane Tlakotani finally bestowed it on him. Others
have applied but have been politely "put on hold" -- as I am sure most of
you would be if you wrote in to the relevant British authorities today and
asked for a peerage!

There is no egalitatarian in the Five Empires: when a title-holder attends
a large party or festival, his/her title is read out by the chamberlains
whose task it is to admit and seat guests. It is also read with many
honorifics and flowery praises when he/she is presented to the Governor or
in the Hall of the Petal Throne. It is inscribed in gold ink on deeds,
writs, and other documents, and mention of it will almost always get the
person in to see priests, officials, and bureaucrats.

Land ownership is largely clan-based, so that only personal lands may
sometimes go with a title. A clan title, however, usually remains with a
lineage and a family within that lineage, so that it is likely to be passed
on to some scion of that family, rather than to some other person. Thus, as
long as the Chaishyani lineage of the Golden Sunburst clan of Jakalla
maintains its honour and position, the title of /Mringukoi/ that it has
held since the days of the Priestkings will likely be handed on to the
eldest son of the current owner. It would only devolve upon some other
person if the Chaishyanis had no children or were disgraced. Then the clan
elders would meet and after much politicking, a new /Mringukoi/ would be
selected. Money, clan loyalty, and service would play a large part in this,
of course.

"Control" of land does not matter at all. Nobody "owns" or "controls" land.
Titles are NOT based on "control" but on ancient tradition, rather like
modern Europe.

A noble must hand on his/her title to the eldest son (in the south; eldest
daughter in the north), of course. One cannot just decide to give it away
to a friend! If lands go with the title, then the fiefholder is responsible
for taxes, arrears, and other expenses. Failure to pay these will bring
about clan censure and quick action by the elders, who may pay amounts due
but will then compel the fiefholder to surrender a share of the crops,
produce, and business profits accruing from the land. Complete failure to
pay -- or unwillingness -- will result in the clan getting a confiscation
order from the Palace of the Realm, and the title will then be taken away
from its holder and bestowed on some other clansman -- together with much
social opprobrium and disgrace! I cannot remember the last time this rare
step was taken.

There are ceremonies, special costumes, honorific forms of address, and
many other details that go along with a title, of course. The title-holder
is expected to be a little more ceremonious, aloof, and dignified. He/she
is also expected to marry a person of similar glorified lineage as his/her
"First Spouse," although concubines and lesser wives/husbands can be added
without a problem.

Note that the "Baron" of Yan Kor is an /Arsekmekoi/ -- and very proud of
it. He obtained this title years ago when he fought for the Tsolyani
(before Kaidrach Field), and he retains it to this day. He could now grant
himself all sorts of Yan Koryani titles and glorified epithets, but he does
not.

Clan Religions

Even if one's clan is not religiously fixed, one's own lineage -- or one's
personal beliefs -- will usually be so. Members of "religiously fixated"
clans, too, may not always belong to the sect of their clan -- a person may
be Red Sun and not be Vimuhla, for example, but Avanthe or Hnalla or
Thumis! This leads to some prejudice and unpleasantry, especially in the
really "hard-core" clans (e.g. Copper Door, Vriddi), but it is possible and
is often found. A child generally chooses a religion when growing up, and
this sometimes differs from the preferences of his lineage and his direct
family. It happens even on this world: a child of devout Protestant
Christian parents may decide to become Greek Orthodox, a Hindu, etc., for
purely personal reasons. It is the same on Tekumel.

Religious "moderation" is not concomitant with a clan's lack of sectarian
affiliation. It just means that the clan, as a whole, has no single
religious belief or sectarian membership. A Sarku worshipper who belongs to
Golden Bough, by some quirk of fate and family history, may be just as
devoted to his wormy deity as any member of Open Sepulchre.

Clans, lineages, and families all share in the "guidance" of a child and
may try to steer him/her into a particular sect. Some are just stubborn,
however, while others claim to know better. It is no easier on Tekumel than
it is on Earth.

Clans & Heirs to the Petal Throne

See the section "History – The Modern Empires – Tsolyanu- The Life of
Prince Taksuru" for an account of how an heir to the throne of Tsolyanu is
raised by an adopted clan.

Specific Clan Information

          Tlakotani

Most prominent members belong to the Stability temples, but the Tlakotani
are an eclectic lot, and there is no prejudice or attempt to convert Change
adherents.

The Blue Hood Clan

A solid, upper or medium clan, related to the Clan of the Purple Gem, and
based in a number of large cities throughout the central Empire. It is
numerically small and local, but it is honourable and has a number of
members who are officers, priests, and administrators in Ksarul/Gruganu
enterprises and some in those of Hru'u/Wuru.

Ito & Vriddi

Both of these clans have members who hold noble titles. The Vriddi have
more, the Itos considerably less. I don't know the exact number of "Lords,"
"Counts," etc. for either, however. I suspect it's about 10 titles for the
Vriddi, some of which are clan-based, and 2 or 3 are "personal." The Itos
probably have only 1 or 2 clan-based titles and maybe 1 personal one (the
current Ito overlord).

White Crystal

Origins

Supposedly Engsvanyali, like its "parent," the Clan of the White Stone, it
is one of the agricultural clans of the Engsvanyali Empire. Its members
often became local officials, and now it is famous for its numerous
bureaucrats all across the Empire. No one knows when it was founded, but it
is supposed to have been during early Engsvanyali times somewhere near
Jakalla or north along the River.

Lineages

The lineages within White Crystal are numerous, some are Arsanmra,
Charunai, Sankolum, Mrelsa, Tenkolu, Tlangtal, Tessuken, Marassu, Tetkuru,
Zhotlu'e, Sanuklen, Takolu, Khursa, and Tukun. The Tukun lineage is said to
date back to a hero of Dormoron Plain, but this is a fiction: it is
probably no older than late Ensgvanyali times.

Jakalla Clanmaster

Neqo hiArsanmra is still clanmaster. He's a tough old bird, but he has
helped the clan prosper, in spite of the civil war -- or perhaps because of
it since he has sold grain and hides and other supplies to Prince Eselne,
to Prince Rereshqala, and to the Imperium.



Geography (Tékography?)



General Observations

Closed Cities

Dlash, is a centre for worship of the "One of Fears." Quite possibly a name
for one of the three known Pariah Deities, rather than a "new" Pariah
Deity.

Hlikku in Yan Kor is an ethnic-religious site, occupied by a sect that
makes the Assassins of the mediaeval Middle East look like the PTA
(Parent-Teacher Association, for you British and European folks).

Mu'ugallu is also ethnic, with religious overtones: a cult-site for the
military secret ritues of Lord Hrsh. (What was the name of that castle
where Himmler used to hold secret initiations and rituals of the SS?)

Songyal Island is also some sort of cult site, probably devoted to an
aspect of Shiringgayi who has to do with the sea -- rater like Mretten and
the other sea-goddesses of the southeast.

The City of Sarku and Hmakuyal are cult headquarters: both very ancient and
full of fanatic worshippers. Sarku's minions hold special pilgrimages and
celerations in his secret labyrinths every year, and nobody knows what the
Inner Temple of Ksarul does deep in the walls of the crater around
Hmakuyal.

Has anybody explored these places? You might try asking Arjai hiVaisoner,
who was brought up at Hmakuyal -- in the outer circle, of course. Various
scholars have visited and written about both of the Tsolyani secret sites,
and there was even a fellow who pretended to be a priest of Ksarul and got
into some of the depths under Hmakuyal. He was rather like Sir Richard
Burton, who knew all the right languages, rituals, and details, and managed
to get into -- and out of -- Mecca.) Unfortunately, the fake priest of
Ksarul didn't have powerful enough blocking spells, and the priesthood read
his mind, identified him, and then gave him what he sought: they created an
illusion -- for his mind alone -- of a vast labyrinth filled with magical
devices he could never understand, books he could never read, people and
creatures he could never speak with, and endless blank hallways that led
nowhere. I think he's still on display somewhere in one of the outer halls
of the temple.



Livyanu

Dlash

The Red Hats know better than to try to breach the isolation of Dlash. They
know about the place from centuries of living next to Livyanu, and they
don't want to create problems where none currently exists. Militarily, they
could invade Dlash easily, but there are some things even the greedy
generals of Ssa'atis don't want to arouse.



Salarvya

Internal Organization

The borders of the "family territories" of Salarvya have never really been
worked out, least of all by the Salarvyani themselves. There are no FORMAL
boundaries. The Salarvyani "states" are really clusters of families/clans
aroundstronger urban regions.

Why would anybody WANT to adventure in Salarvya? The place is practically
in a continuous state of civil insurrection these days, although the
western "families" (under the leadership of Koyluga) have managed to
cooperate in sending expeditions and scouting probes into Tsolyanu through
the Gilraya Forests to see how "soft" and "spongy" the Tsolyani have
become, now that they are fighting their own civil war with all the
factions against Emperor Dhich'une! The nicest region in Salarvya is way
out east: Jaekanta, under the Shiggashko'onmu lineage. They are so far from
Tsatsayagga that they hardly know the place exists. Which is much better
for them.



Tsolyanu

Ruins of Hmakuyal

Hmakuyal is situated in a great volcanic "sink: a roundish depression that
is deepest on the western side. The walls of this place have been
honeycombed with caverns, passages, etc., and great images of Lord Ksarul,
his Aspects, his mythological exploits, etc. are carved here and there all
around. Travellers come in from the east, enter into a maze of pilgrimage
centres, tombs and graveyards, and fallen temples dating from Engsvanyali
times. Then they go on into ring after ring of caverns, shrines, and the
like until they are deep within the western wall. There are dwelling places
there, too, monasteries for priests (and priestesses), great meeting halls,
and other elegant things too numerous to recount. The city apparently fell
into ruin at the end of the Engsvanyali Period and was only partially
restored. It was not Ditlana that is the cause but rather internceine
warfare between the latter-day priesthood of Ksarul and the growing power
of the incipient Tlakotani Dynasty.

In brief: the temple of Ksarul believed that its ancient lineages (from
Dormoron Plain) gave it an edge: Dark Moon, Dark Fear, etc. These clans
trace themselves back to Lord Ksarul's bodyguard units (right or wrong).
The Red clans of the southwest (Red Sun, Red Sword, etc.) joined with the
Hnalla and Avanthe clans of the central Empire to combat them. This is all
forgiven now, but many remember. Lord Ksarul's temple has had to be polite
to the Tlakotanis, and indeed, a few Emperors have been followers of the
Blue Prince.

The Tlakotanis have since pushed all this history into semi-secret "closed
stacks" in their libraries. They would like the ancient rivalry forgotten
because they want to maintain unity against the Mu'ugalavyani and other
rivals. The fall of Hmakuyal is thus blamed on a variety of other causes --
including an invasion by minions of the Pariah Deities!

Jakalla

Monastery of Ksarul

The nearest Ksarul monastery -- aside from small, local "city" monasteries
and temples within Jakalla itself, lies to the west in the great ruined
city of Hmakuyal. You might ask Lord Arjai hiVaisoner about it -- he hails
from there. I cannot think of any other one near Jakalla, which doesn't
mean there isn't any! The Temple of the Lord of the Blue Room is not known
for putting up public billboards!

Map of Jakalla (see elsewhere for map)

The map of Jakalla never did have a scale, and hence the big buildings are
MUCH too big, and the smaller houses, shops, etc. are much too small and
constricted. The map should be redrawn, but who has time or energy? The map
is, as I said, badly skewed and constricted and should be extended to fit
some reasonable scale. I drew it long ago when I was still working with
Tsolyani concepts of drawing pictures instead of real mapping. They never
discovered "scale" but made the more important buildings larger and the
minor ones smaller or non-existent.

Tombs

Most of the clans have lands around Jakalla, and clan members tend to live
outside of the city on their own lands, rather than cramp the clanhouse in
town. The noble dead are indeed buried in mausolea underneath certain sites
in the City of the Dead. Many of the minor clansfolk are buried in lesser
graves in small graveyards on the clan lands, and some of the really minor
-- slaves, labourers, etc. are just put into the ground with no rites or
grave goods. In a couple of years the insects do their work, and the
"grave" can be used again for somebody else. All of the high clans do NOT
bury their dead in one mausoleum, of course: each has an entrance that
leads to its own burial sites.

The City of Komore

The landscape around Komore is complex. It is only about 100 Tsan southeast
to the edge of the Swamps that surround old Purdimal. These are rather like
fens: turgid, brown water, tall rushes and dismal little crooked trees,
groves of taller trees, and here and there a copse of the black-leaved
Tiu-trees (rather like spruces or pines) that are common in the northlands.
Here and there are patches of the deadly Food of the Ssu and less pleasant
plants.

Once the Sakbe Road leaves the swamps, it rises along a spur of hills
northwestward to the more arid plateau upon which Komore stands. There are
low hills and broad valleys here, watered poorly by run-off from the great
mountain massif to the east, the mighty Thenu Thendraya Peak, one of the
tallest single peaks on Tekumel. Go east from Komore, and you come to
swiftly rising foothills, then to cliffs and gorges, then to higher peaks,
and finally to the triangular needle of Thenu Thendraya itself.

Go north from Komore and you enter more and more arid land that slopes
gradually downhill to the edge of the Desert of Sighs. Plants here are
sparse, more like cacti, with gnarled and stunted desert trees here and
there in a rocky, sandy, red-brown landscape. To the east of Komore lie
better lands: the lain south of mighty Khirgar, stretching west to Si'is
and Tu'unmra and down to Mrelu. Crops grow well here: reddish Dna-grain,
Dmi-root, Dle-fruit orchards, and a variety of vegetables and other fruits.
The really good agricultural land lies to the west of Komore, down towards
Si'is and Hauma.

The people of Komore (pronounced "Ko-mo-RAY") are sturdy agriculturalists,
clannish and a little reserved, not as warlike as the Khirgari, not as
inward-looking and silent as the residents of the Swamps around Purdimal,
not as boisterous as the reddish-complected (Mu'ugalavyani-related) folk of
Si'is and the Atkolel Heights, nor as serious and solemn as the border
peoples of Paya Gupa, with their endless devotions to Lord Thumis. Komore
has a reputation for solidity and reliability. There are minerals to be
mined in the area, farm products, herds of Hma and Hmelu and Chlen to be
pastured on the slopes to the east, wines to be made in vineyards on the
higher slopes of the Thenu Thendraya range, with transport clans very
prominent, and a certain number of ancient desert-related clans as well.
Komore is not known as the headquarters for any particular religious sect:
all 20 temples of the gods are found within its dust-red stone walls, and
its broad streets are home to people of many sects and nationalities. One
sees many Pe Choi here, as well as Pachi Lei refugees (now especially since
the Mu'ugalavyani took Pan Chaka early in Emperor Dhich'une's reign),
various desert tribesemen who speak in unintelligible Milumanyani dialects,
various Yan Koryani merchants, and others.

The city is not large, but it is well run. The governor is a woman: Lady
Nia hiVekkuma, of the Green Malachite Clan, 33 years old, and a devotee of
Lady Dlamelish, and quite pretty (though not "beautiful": she is too
slender and tall for that). Her tastes run to secret orgies and adolescent
males. She is, however, a good administrator and has never been known to
fail in her tasks. Her clan is powerful in Komore because of nearby
deposits of its sacred stone: malachite.

The only other person I know from Komore is a Kasi in the Storm of Fire
Legion (21st MI), whose name is Chiyoz hiZhotlu'e (a Milumanayani lineage
of no stature). He is perhaps 35 years old, a member of the White Crystal
clan, and devoted to Lord Chiteng. He is sturdy, stocky, round-headed with
almost no neck, blinks continually, and mean. He was the officer of a
contingent of troops that fought in the northern war against Yan Kor. I
think he has returned home by now. No idea whether he has a family or not.
In Milumanaya he was always buying and selling Milumanayani prisoners,
which fastidious Tsolyani consider to be a VERY low thing to do. Slavers
are not popular in the Empire. Chiyoz was not well liked by his troops, but
he was a tenacious fighter.

Areas of Interest Nearby

Fort Nishu'va and Fort Rue'lu These are guard towers located in very
defensible positions, consisting of a 3-4 story tower surrounded by a ring
wall with a single gate. Not major fortifications. Just watchtowers against
Milumanayani incursions.

Rumusu Peak: This is in the northern part of the hex on the Zocchi map
(#4409). The path up to the tower is steep and stony, as I recall, and much
overgrown with brambles and thorn plants.

River of white salt. This is a brackish river that seems to spring out of
the side of Rumusu peak and flows away east.

The edge of the Desert of Sighs is not a fun place. The shores of the river
are crusted with salt deposits, thus giving the river it's name. Another
name, used by the Milumanayani Tribesmen, is "The River of White Thirst."
Farther down in its course, the river water is so salty as to be poisonous.

Plateau of Kéttusesh This is a fairly nondescript plateau that rises out of
the surrounding agricultural terrain. The Tsolyani were rather hoping that
if the Yan Koryani army came this way, they could be held off by determined
troops at the top of the decline leading down to the north. As somebody
gently pointed out, all the enemy had to do was to go around and take
another route. Several slopes lead up to the top of the plateau. There was
some thought of adding to Komore's fortifications, but I don't recall that
anything much was done. The war was mainly fought farther west, at the
Atkolel Heights, and then the Tsolyani took the offensive and moved up
through Pijjena to Kai, etc. The Baron's forces couldn't bring enough water
and supplies to march down through the terrible Desert of Sighs.

People of the Kraa Hills

The Sarku worshippers of the Kraa Hills are now pretty average peasant
stock, having lost much of any "non-Tsolyani" culture they might once have
had. They are a lot more assimilated to Tsolyani life than the Ito clan of
the Chakas, for instance. They now remember only a few words of what they
say was once a complete language, and their rites are very similar to the
urban Sarku worshippers in the City of Sarku. They tend to wear brown or
ochre smocks and lace-up boots. The latter are probably a protection
against the Alash snakes and Epeng that frequent the mountains of their
area. They cut their hair in a sort of "Norman" fashion: long on top and
shaved all around the sides -- no beards or moustaches. Other Tsolyani
consider them "slow," but they are not stupid -- just canny, aloof, and
secretive about their religious practices. Some say that there are temples
to Lord Sarku back in the ravines and rocky valleys of the Kraa Hills that
even the priesthood of Sarku does not know about.

The Village of Sétnákh

On the Zocchi map, the Sakbe road splits at the centre of 2917, the town at
this juncture is named Sétnakh. It is an unlovely, muddy place, filled with
ferryboats, Chlen-carts, warehouses, and goods-merchants, who make it
noisy, dirty, crowded, and generally awful (spelled offal). Neither I nor
my friends have gone there often, but we have been through it.

The Sakbe Road dips southward from the west, then splits, with one branch
going along the riverbank to the northeast, and a second branch heading
southeast to the Equnoyel River and on to Jaikalor. Setnakh is located in
the northern angle of this three-way juncture, on the riverbank, with
wharves and docks for ferries over to the secondary roads and fertile
plains to the north.

History

Most of the older buildings of this area go back only a few hundred years,
anything older is buried beneath alluvial mud. There were great cities here
during the Engsvanyali period, but with the sinking of the southern
tektonic plates and the drowning of Ganga itself, most of these remnants
were buried. A few buildings go back to the early days of the Second
Imperium, and there are stories about artefacts that were saved from the
floods and hidden away here and there. All my friends recall about the
place is the stench of dirty river water, mud, dead fish, and soggy
laundry. They crossed over the land bridge to get from one river to the
other here, and as I recall they didn't exactly enjoy it. There is a gate
in the southern wall tower that permits carts, etc. to unload their cargoes
onto wharves where ferries can take them north to the hinterlands across
the river -- and vice-versa. To the west, off the map, there is a ramp that
allows chlen-carts access to the Sakbe Road from the south, and another
"down-ramp" on the north side.

Population & Government

There is no firm estimate of the population, but I would guess about 5-7
thousand.

The Imperium is represented by by 50 Imperial road guards, who mostly live
in the three Sakbe Road towers shown on the map. There is a Palace of the
Realm building, but it is pretty small and unimportant. The clans
administer the place with some efficiency -- for the sake of business --
and there are no reasons for a big Palace of the Priesthoods, Palace of
Foreign Lands, or Palace of Everglorious War. Those are for bigger cities.

The mayor (Mraduharetokoi) of Setnakh, Miyesu hiMayka of the Amber Cloak
Clan, is a pleasant old man; you'll like him, though his shrewish wife is
always a problem at a party. Mostly other clan memberships and
office-bearers are petty bureaucrats, working hard to fulfil their Skeins
as cogs in the great machine. Some of them are interesting, some are dull
-- enough for lots of intrigues and adventures. (And then there are stories
of the great ancient capital city of Purdanim buried 400 feet down in the
alluvial mud a hundred Tsan or more directly north of Setnakh. Last group
that travelled by nexus point to the ruins of old Purdanim were unhappily
suffocated in topsoil deep beneath the surface. Couldn't get their magic to
work down there -- something about the proximity of metal...?)

The Mraduharetokoi is about 55, stout, affable, bald, smooth faced and
beardless as a baby, and worships Lord Qon. He had hoped for promotion to
bigger and better posts, but he is neither very smart nor well-connected.
He spends his days in the Palace of the Realm (see the map, upper left
side), playing Den-den with his cronies, collecting bribes, and keeping the
town's ragged little band of bureaucrats together. He has quarters near the
Palace of the Realm, in the Administrative Building there, and his two
wives and 6 kids are a terror to his staff of 5 scribes and 3 servants. He
has a "police force" of 20 city guards who live here and there abbout the
town. This is reinforced by 50 Imperial road guards, who mostly live in the
three Sakbe Road towers shown on the map. The Captain of the road guards is
one of Miyesu's friends, a short, wiry-haired, bandy-legged officer named
Bolon hiSiranul, from the southern coast near Jakalla. He is also a Qon
worshipper.

Clans & Religious Affiliations

I think Might of Ganga has a commercial depot here: transhipping goods to
barges to go south and then out to supply the islands in the southern sea.

There are clan agents who handle grain, cloth, Salarvyani goods, salted
meat, pottery, glassware, metalwork, etc. Some of these persons handle more
than one type of commodity, others deal with 5-6 items. Whenever a load
comes into the warehouse (by boat, by chlen-cart, by slave caffle), the
dealers send letters to the relevant forwarders.

Might of Ganga also has a small clanhouse in Setnakh -- nothing big, but
better than some other higher clans, which have none and must rely upon
agents.

No other important clans are here that I recall, but several medium-high
clan shave small establishments here, mostly as way stations for their
members travelling up or down river.

Religious affiliation in a little town like Setnakh is coincidental, or
dependent upon local history. This means little since each member of every
clan has SOME religion or other. The Clan of the Ewer of Gold Outpouring is
rather local in the southeast. It is a medium-medium clan, with a
preponderance of members in the sects of Avanthe, Hnalla, Thumis, and their
cohorts, but with some Hru'u, Ksarul, and Vimuhla members also. Maybe even
a few Sarku people, though I have never heard of any. Belkhanu members are
rare near Setnakh but are common nearer to Thraya. Yes, it handles
transhipping along the Sakbe Roads and the rivers in its area, charging
small percentages on loads transferred from one mode of transport to
another: ship to chlen-carts, ship to slaves, slaves to carts, etc. It
arranges for loading and unloading, guarding, storing, etc. of cargoes.

Hnalla, Avanthe, and Belkhanu predominate in the southeastern corner of the
Empire. The usual clans listed in the Sourcebook may be found, although
only a few have permanent clanhouses in this small town: White Stone,Great
Stone, Amber Cloak (Belkhanu), Rising Sun, Green Bough, Blue Stream, Green
Forest, Open Hand, and several more low clans. Of the "dark" clans, Black
Pinnacle and Black Monolith come to mind. There are sprinklings of
Karakan/Chegarra, Sarku/Durritlamish, and Salarvyani immigrants who worship
Lady Shiringgayyi.

There is not much presence of any organised Dilinala, Dlamelish, or
Hrihayal activity in Setnakh. I think there is a small group of Dilinala
worshippers (5-10) in the agricultural-administrative section of the
Governor's staff, and I am sure there are Dlamelish/Hrihayal worshippers in
the brothels and also in the White Stone clanhouse. The latter are persons
of some quality, mostly from Jakalla andinvolved with the cloth trade. They
have a small shrine and perform the rudiments of the rituals for the Two
Ladies. If you are looking for really intricate Dlamelish/Hrihayal rituals,
you must go on to Jakalla. Visitors to Setnakh who serve these deities must
either perform their rituals by themselves,or else ask around until they
can be directed to the White Stone clanhouse, where they are usually
invited to join in the local observances.

There is a Hnalla monastery located just a few Tsan on toward Jakalla, but
it is not very distinguished. There is also a temple of Thumis that is
distinctly tatty.

Non-Humans

There are also no nonhuman houses per se in Setnakh. It is too small for
such urban frills. Ahoggya visitors to the town usually rent tents and buy
provisions outside the town (south of the main southern gate); there is a
Pe Choi family resident in the town (to the west of the White Stone
clanhouse), and they take in occasional Pe Choi merchants, etc. Larger
parties must quarter outside the town, of course. I think the same is true
for the rare Hlaka who stops here; most of these flyers go straight on to
Jakalla or else camp in one of the glades along the ridge between the two
rivers to the west.

Usenanu

Usenanu has several hostels for foreign or out-of-city travellers.
Imentioned only the BEST hostels in the Sourcebook. Most people do live in
clanhouses, and every clan tries to have a house in every large city -- and
also in as many of the smaller towns as possible. Rather like fraternities
that have chapters at different American universities.

The Southern Isles (Gánga, Vrá, Thayurí & Lilsú)

General Observations

One must distinguish between Vra and the other southern islands. Ganga,
Thayuri, Burru Isle, and even little Lilsu Isle are all part of the
Engsvanyali heritage, while Vra was always separate, with a different
dialect, a somewhat different culture (hardly more than a sub-culture,
really), and very distinct political objectives that did not include being
subservient to the lords of Bey Su, Jakalla, and the north. The temples of
Engsvanyalu had better luck with the Vrayani than the Priestkings'
political arm. The temple of Lady Avanthe was particularly popular -- and
was perhaps identified with one or another of the goddesses of the southern
seas in this area.

The whole south sank somewhat during the catastrophe of Engvan Hla Ganga ,
and the swamps were formed in the shallows of the low ground that was left.
Ganga clearly is a tilted piece of real estate, sloping sharply downto the
east. Thayuri is similar, ut with less of a tilt since it had a higher
central ridge in the first place.

The name Msumtel Bay does not quite reach as far south as Songgyal Isle --
only to the northern edge of Tamkade Bay -- a rather vague delineation. All
of this area is named, although some parts are not often traversed by human
shipping: e.g. the little islands closest in to the Layoda Swamps. This
area is the "Drowned Land": a region of great underwater tree trunks,
vines, roots, and vegetation that contain some of the ugliest creatures on
the planet, many not in any Bestiary! The western reaches of the Gilraya
Forest become progressively wetter and denser jungle, and by the time one
reaches the boundaries of the Layoda Swamps, there is no ground underfoot
at all -- only squelching vegetation and dismal water. At the south edge of
the Gilraya Forests, along Tamkade Bay, the land rises somewhat, and there
are stretches of miasmal coastal swamps all along here. Ships generally
stay well to the south of this, and hug the Salarvyani coast all the way up
to Heru.

Governance

The Kerdu of the Legion of the Echoing Stone is not the Governor but rather
holds a historic but rather empty title. His clan and family is indeed very
wealthy, but the Governor is someone appointed by the Imperium. He is
currently Lord Changartla hiMriyatlaku, of the Golden Bough clan. He is 43
years old, has 2 wives (one of whom he mistreats, while pampering the other
one). He has 3 sons and 1 daughter, all adults with jobs of their own. Lord
Changartla is suave, sophisticated, loves dogs (racing, hunting, breeding),
and high-culture entertainments like epic poetry, drama, mime, etc. He is
also as crooked as the day is long: cheats on taxes and contracts, takes
bribes, hires hitmen, ruthlessly grabs property, and is generally not a
nice person. He is no favourite of Avanthar, but rather almost an exile
from the court at Bey Su. The current Emperor, Dhich'une, hardly knows he
exists. As long as reports and taxes come in, Dhich'une ignores him. One
day he may get what he so richly deserves: a one-way trip in a small boat
into the Msumtel Swamps...

Gánga

Lilsú

Lilsu Isle is low, rolling, covered with rather pretty farms and estates
owned by magnates from Jakalla, the Kaija Protectorate, and also from
Thayuri Isle. Most of these estates grow garden vegetables, fruits, and
crops for the markets of the other islands and also Jakalla. Nuts, berries,
Dlel-fruit, and other commodities bring in a lot of wealth. There are only
small port towns on Lilsu, too small to be marked on the map. There is also
a central ridge of scrub forest, where a few wild animals can still be
found. The island is about 90 Tsan east-west, by 30 north-south. There are
no good all-weather ports, however, and when storms come, the inhabitants
haul their fishing boats and cargo vessels out of water and put them into
protected drydocks. This precludes larger vessels, of course. There are
also dangerous shallow waters and shoals off the northwest corner of the
island, which only a skilled pilot can avoid. The island is technically
under the governorship of Thayuri Isle, but in fact it tends to be
semi-autonomous, run by wealthy landholders and business folk from Jakalla,
Kaija, and Thayuri Isle.

Thayurí

Tléku is a port city: wharves, warehouses, businesses, all at the western
end, near the sea; some of the old shipping clans have clanhouses here. It
sits on the river Ma'án. It's a short, tumultuous river, not very deep, but
quite pretty. It rises in the central highlands and tumbles right down to
the sea, where there is a north-south bridge (made of Engsvanyali masonry
that has been reused) that splits Old Tleku off from New Tleku to the
south. Neither Old nor New Tleku are really old or new, of course -- the
newest buildings on the island are the palaces and governmental offices of
the Imperium, back up to the east behind the port. The port has an enclave
of sailors and foreigners, as might be expected, with small districts
devoted to Ahoggya and Shen -- no other nonhumans in any number -- and lots
of Salarvyani, Haida Pakalani, and other human wanderers.

Behind this, the city slopes up rapidly to a north-south crest that is the
highest point of the island. There are palaces and temples built on these
upper slopes. The highest ridge houses the Governor's palace, the temple of
Hnalla, and the temple of Lady Avanthe. The other deities have shrines that
are lower down, the farthest being that to Lord Ksarul off to the north end
of the city along the ridge.

Behind the crest, to the northeast, the island slopes down very rapidly and
ends up underwater, with muck, icky vegetation, and swamp creatures (most
harmless: the big ones across the Bay have been eradicated on the island
itself). The northwestern part of the island is covered with farms, fields,
grape-vineyards, etc. Inland, this region becomes mountainous and rugged,
with deep ravines and steep hillsides -- the leftovers of the great
catastrophe so many years ago. Between the two "arms" of the central range
is a depression that is swampy and jungle-covered. Thayuri Isle is known
for its wines and fine, reddish-purple Dlel-fruit. The islanders mainly
live off sea products, however: fish, shellfish, various types of kelp-like
plants that are tasty eating, cordage made from another sea plant, etc.
There are pearls and a few other products, as well. The island also
functions as a take-off point for shipping in the archipelago, across to
Vra, south to Ganga Isle, etc. Most of the islanders are Stability
worshippers, claiming to be descended from the Priestkings and their court.

The Thayuri are very proud of their "nobility" and would probably take
violent exception to someone who suggested otherwise. The people of Thayuri
are not Vrayanai and feel little ethnic identity with Vra. The Thayuri
consider themselves to be descended from the mighty Priestkings of Ganga,
and some clans still have legends of arriving by boat on the island after
the catastrophe that sank mighty Ganga to the south.

These people are aristocratic bluebloods, who consider anything not
traceable back to the court of the Priestkings somewhat declasse.

Vrá

A Message From the Vra Tourist Board

Enjoy Vra! It's a lovely place. A little tense with ancient clan rivalries
and now political differences, but still one of the nicer locales of the
Empire. I've always had a soft spot for old Vra; there's nothing like
sailing in to Vra Harbour just after sunset, with the coloured paper
lanterns of the wealthy twinkling in the colonnades of the white
clan-palaces rising up like cliffs behind the docks. The smells of spices,
incense, cooking, and fresh fruit heaped on the quays give Vra its own
sweet, exotic atmosphere. The tinkling bells and heady rhythms of the drums
of the Temple of Dlamelish, which stands right beside the Bridge of Mighty
Ships call the visitor to stay and drowse awhile.

Culture

Hard to say but definitely there. The Vrayani are traditionally more
fun-loving, more given to jokes and humour -- or at least an occasional
smile -- than the serious and status-conscious Tsolyani, much less the dour
residents of Khirgar and Yan Kor. There is always a party, usually
informal, without all of the structured and stratified entertainments and
feasting found in the Empire itself. The Arena in the City of Vra is often
filled with clowns and pretty girls, and athletic events, rather than with
grim and bloody gladiators. The Vrayani value singing, playing the Sra'ur
(rather like a lute), folk dancing (which the mighty of Tsolyanu would not
be caught dead doing), art, and erotic poetry. The Engsvanyali poet Yetil
is much admired, and his sensuous verses have been translated into Tsolyani
and also into the Vrayani dialect of Tsolyani, as well as other tongues.
There is a thriving book-copying and selling business in Lnoris, as well as
in the City of Vra.

Along with more jollity, the Vrayani are also given to hotter tempers and
more violence, especially over women (and their women fight just as often
over men!), gambling, and the custom of daring each other to perform feats
of athletic prowess -- and quarrelling over it. Be a little careful when
addressing a Vrayani, male or female, especially one who wears the slim
Vrayani dagger in a sheath at his or her hip.

The etymologies of Sine and Vra are not known -- lost in history. Probably
even pre-Engsvanyali and even First Imperium.The division into two
provinces was certainly Engsvanyali and was done for ease of
adminis-tration. Vra and Lnoris are clearly two separate ancient power
centres. (I once heard a legend that there had been warfare between them at
some unguessably early time in mythological history. I could never find any
sources, however.) Now there is really little rivalry between these
provinces; the rulers of Vra itself seem to have triumphed, economically,
over the inhabitants of Lnoris. It's pretty much one country nowadays:
rather like Kent and Surrey. Vra seems to be the richer of the two
provinces, and its agricultural products are more widely famed than those
of its sister-province. Nobody seems to mind very much. The real provincial
governor resides in Vra, while the governor of Lnoris is much less
important.

Many of the old lineages have been represented on the island of Vra for
millennia, and a number of these have members in the Joyous of Vra.
Intermarriage is fairly common and not frowned upon, provided that the link
is with an equal or higher clan. Hence, lineage names often overlap, and
the Vrayani are an amiable, outgoing bunch, who don't mind such unions. In
the City of Sarku, Hmakuyal, or even Khirgar, on the other hand, the locals
are more aloof and jealous of their ancient connections.

Economy

Vra is quite prosperous, rich and sunny, with lots of fine fruits, flowers,
wines, and sweet, perfumed Dmi-sugar candies that are exported up to
Jakalla and beyond. There is about as much agriculture on Vra as on
Thayuri, but the latter's main products are sea-fish, shellfish,
mother-of-pearl (a similar substance not identical with old Earth's),
wines, etc.

Invasion by Thayuí

The "People of the Peak" were apparently dissidents against the
Engsvanyali, and when the island of Ganga sank, they fled not to Thayuri
Isle but westward to Vra, where they quickly became cosy with the local
anti-Tsolyani attitude. There were probably no more than two or three
hundred of these folk, plus some retainers and serfs. Later, the Vrayani
tried to seal off their island and keep it "pure" from Tsolyani influences.
The "People of the Peak" played a small role in the political infighting
that went on sporadically until the Imperium conquered the island in 1115
A.S.

The Legion of the Echoing Stone was not very large, nor very political,
during the period of the invasion of Vra in 1115. It is not well known, but
the records seem to imply that the officers of the Legion in this period
were actually pro-Tsolyani. Thayuri Isle has always been a bastion of
loyalty to the Imperium; just why is not known.

I don't have the name or clan of the general who was in charge of this
legion in 1115, but I would bet he is descended from somebody in the Might
of Ganga clan, even possibly of the Zayuvu lineage, like the present
general.

Lnóris

Lnoris is a typical Vrayani city. Most of the inhabitants are followers of
Lady Avanthe (or Dilinala), with a few members of other faiths. The
industries are mostly connected with the sea, fishing, and transport of
goods. Lnoris is one of the last good all-weather ports before the long
trip north to Penom, one of the regular stops on the
Salarvyanu-Tsolyanu-Mu'ugalavya run. The stone seawall was built by the
Engsvanyali, and it has been rebuilt and expanded by Emperor Hejjeka IV
"Restorer of Dignities." The politics of Lnoris are relatively simple:
worship Lady Avanthe, belong to one of the high Vrayani clans (Joyous of
Vra is the best!), serve the local shipping interests, grow nice fruits and
vegetables in your estate's gardens, hold lots of delicate parties and
fetes to entertain your peers, and enjoy! The warm southern sunlight will
lull you into sleepy lethargy, and you'll die a rich man with lots of
kiddies by pretty Vrayani clangirls whom you can hardly remember... Thus,
the Tsolyani author says, is the fate of those who dwell on Vra, the
"Island of Softnesses."

Physical Geography

Vra is about 400 Tsan NS and 300 EW. The northern shore is high and
precipitous, sloping down somewhat to the east, where it becomes a region
of pretty, forested, fields and copses on the shores of the Strait of Hanar
(whoever HE was) across which lies Thayuri Isle. The northern portion of
the island is sparsely populated, rocky, and comparatively mountainous.
There are vineyards, Hma and Hmelu pasturage, orchards, and berry fields
there. The central "saddle" between Lnoris and the City of Vra is lower,
more populous, planted in grain (mostly Dna), vegetables, and big
Mash-fruit trees. Workshops and shipyards fill the coves on the eastern
shore, and Vra itself sits in a charming harbour, with white houses with
brown and red tiled roofs, occasional temple pyramids, palaces, and parks
where the lithe, golden-skinned Vrayani children play. This region is
called "Avanthe's Table" because of its richness and beauty. The great
clanhouses are built like walled fortresses upon the hills behind the City
of Vra. A single broad thoroughfare leads from Vra to Lnoris. This is not a
Sakbe Road, of course, but it is a very good secondary road. Other, smaller
roads lead northward and southward to other villages and towns. The
southern part of Vra contains a central mountain peak, the "Old Woman
Watcher." Small fishing villages, fruit orchards, and tiny grain-fields
occupy the coves and inlets along these shores.

Note Thu'ínin Senyáratorakh would be the literal translation of "Old woman
Watcher": old (adj.) + watch-person-feminine-nonhonorific. Senyara is "to
watch over something. In colloquial Vrayani, however, most people say
Thunsénya, and add the -kh suffix for feminine or ignoble when trying to
mind their grammar: Thunsényakh.

The one major river is the Hlanél. It flows down from the northern
mountains, takes a sharp eastern turn, and debouches into the Bay of Vra
through the City of Vra. There are three bridges across this little river:
the westernmost is the Span of the Judge, then the Bridge of Hejjeka IV
"The Restorer of Dignities," and the easternmost (a longish pontoon bridge)
is called the Bridge of Mighty Ships (for reasons nobody knows).

The northern cliffs are not as high and steep as those of Dover, but they
do make for glorious scenery. Lnoris has easy access across the "saddle" to
the City of Vra, and timber for ships, tar, cordage, etc. are shipped to it
from Thayuri Isle and other places, including Salarvyani goods brought in
to Vra and less commonly, Mu'ugalavyani products sent the other way to
Salarvya. There is no large, safe harbour on the long point that faces
Tleku across the Strait of Hanar, but little fishing boats and a few
passenger craft do ply those waters.

Sákbe Roads

General Construction

The Sakbe Roads are solid masonry, except in such places as the swamps
around Purdimal, where they are carried on balks of timber. They are built
with the broadest level usually facing inward, toward the Empire, and the
highest (the third) facing outward towards any imagined foe. At intervals
there are ponderous towers, usually with entrances and staircases, so that
one can go up or down from level to level. Many of these towers also have
exits out onto a platform at the base of the tower, where travellers can
stay, buy provisions, etc. Some of these platforms also have gateways
through the wall, so that chlen-carts, travellers, slave caravans, etc. can
move from one side of the great wall to the other. At Setnakh there is a
gate in the southern wall tower that permits carts, etc. to unload their
cargoes onto wharves where ferries can take them north to the hinterlands
across the river -- and vice-versa. To the west, off the map, there is a
ramp that allows chlen-carts access to the Sakbe Road from the south, and
another "down-ramp" on the north side. These are protected with bastions,
etc. since this region lies close to the swamps of the mad Hlutrgu. There
are watchtowers and heavier fortifications for this purpose all along the
road to Jaikalor, too.

Where two Sakbe Roads meet there are usually larger, stronger, and more
complex fortifications, gates, ramps, etc. so that traffic can move
appropriately.

The Sakbe Road from Thráya to Sokátis

There was once a Sakbe Road link between these two cities, across the
Ranánga River, but it was destroyed some centuries ago and never rebuilt --
problems like money (graft), lack of clan support, poor qualities of local
stone (the great alluvial plain is mostly dirt and clay, down to a depth of
many feet), etc. and political squabbling have prevented the restoration of
the Sakbe Road. The secondary road is pretty good, except in the worst of
the rainy season.

Lord Sanjesh hiKirisaya will have fond memories of this part of the Empire.

Products sent by this route. From the east: forest products (wood, pitch,
woven basketry), Salarvyani wines, Salarvyani cloth, copper ingots,
Dlel-fruit, and gold; from the west: Jakallan wine, fancy glassware and
pottery from Urmish and Katalal, Chlen-hide weapons and tools down from
Katalal and Hauma, sea products from Jakalla itself, paper, inks, and
paints, gems from all across Tsolyanu, agricultural products (grains,
leather, etc.) -- a host of minor products.

Pecháno

Government & Society

The Chaegosh is the oligarch of the old ruling clan of Mechaneno, the
Beneshchan. Since no land is actually ever truly "sold," a buyer becomes
the "vassal" of the person from whom he buys the land. Make sure your
fellow travellers understand this, or they could end up serving dinner in
some lord's feudal hall!

The Chaegosh is selected by his clan. The position is not hereditary, but
it tends to become almost so by virtue of the fact that his lineage and his
entourage make up the most powerful people in the land. Usually the
Beneshchan have ruled, again by virtue of power and proximity to the
ancient throne of Mechaneno. A few Rekhmel rulers are quoted in the
histories, as are a sprinkling of members of other clans a long time ago.
The Chaeogosh is not secluded but goes forth with his heroes to hunt Ssu
and lead heroic expeditions into old Ssuyal. The current Chaeogsh is a
youngish man who calls himself just "Beneshchan," as is the custom. If he
ever had a personal name, it is never used. He is flamboyant, loves
gambling and drink, and fights very well. He is said to follow Vihar. He is
quite hospitable, as long as his guests enjoy endless hunting parties,
bouts of drinking, Ssu-fighting, and challenges to display bravery. He
often gives the winners wives - or male spouses, if the contestant be
female - and encourages joyful public coupling at one of his feasts in
order to produce more heroes for the Seven Gods!

Pechano is, of course, thoroughly oriented towards war, particularly
against he Ssu but also against the great leviathan of Salarvya to the
south. Pechani children learn several types of fighting the moment they are
able to walk. Heroism is highly valued, and prowess is measured in terms of
"kills." The Pechani seem harsh and taciturn to the more "refined"
Tsolyani, but they are essentially decent folk who practice the casual
brutality of a feudal warrior society.

Pechano is an interesting place. One my friends has friendly relations with
the Chaegosh. The Pechani consider Ssu-hunting rather as the British think
of "riding to the hounds." They often treat guests to hunting parties that
are meant to demonstrate heroism -- often foolhardiness -- and cameraderie:
sort of a Norse Valhalla crossed with a Victorian fox-hunting party --
tallyho, and all that!

Clans

There are perhaps 50 clans in Pechano. No one has ever done a census. The
Beneshchan and Rekhmel lineages are the biggest and most powerful. Some are
remote mountain clans, almost equivalent to "tribes." A few are
occupation-based: bakers, wine-makers, carters, smiths, butchers, arms and
armour-makers, and the like. A couple are religious in nature: secretive
and devoted to their deities.

Pechani don't introduce their clan names with "hi-". They put the personal
name first, followed by the clan name.

Military Organisation

Briefly, the Pechani army is organised much like the Salarvyani, with a
strongly feudal basis. The troops of the Rekhmel lineage don't like
fighting beside those of the Beneshchan family, and constant duelling and
"offenses of honour" make cooperation perilous at best.

Relationships With Outsiders

The Pechani honour "heroic" foreigners, including Aridani women. They treat
women quite well, in general, and female soldiers and heroines are honoured
and are the subject of "heroic" epic poems. Foreigners can move fairly
freely through Pechano, but the local feudal society may harbour a few
whimsical, cruel, or downright unpleasant individuals, who may rob or seize
small parties of unprotected foreigners. Getting the backing of the
Chaegosh is thus a VERY good thing - or the support of the oligarchs of the
Rekhmel lineage of Teshkoa. The Pechani do have police forces, road guards,
and "royal agents," but nothing so fancy as the Omnipotent Azure Legion.

The Pechani are not fond of Ahoggya, but they tolerate them -- and put them
right up front in battle with the Ssu. They hardly know what a Pe Choi
looks like, although some travellers and merchants have seen them, of
course.

Religion

The Gods of Pechano are the "Seven Deities of the Rising Peaks", these are
essentiially similar -- though not identical to -- Thumis, Karakan,
Vimuhla, Avanthe-Dlamelish (like Shiringgayi in Salarvya), Ksarul,
Belkhanu, and two local ones: Quoth the Many-Eyed, and the warrior-hero
Nyesset of the Pinnacle. Not much is known about these two. Their
worshippers gather together in processions and march through the mountains
to remote shrines, where animals and fruits are sacrificed and eaten in
large feasts. There are many epics and heroic legends. I don't have much
more on this topic.

Religion in Pechano plays a minor role, compared to Tsolyanu, and the
priesthoods are not held in as high esteem as the warrior lineages. The
priesthoods do have monasteries, but they are not government-funded.

The Ruins of Ssuganar: old Ssyrayal

It's called the "Sideways City", because many of the old subterranean
levels were lifted and turned almost exactly on their sides by earthquakes
right after the Time of Darkness began. What used to be floors are now
walls, etc. It's amusing to see somebody step confidently out of a tubeway
car (which has its own internal gravity) and try to walk towards the far
wall of the great station. It's a long and deadly fall "down" to that wall
now! [our esteemed writer has a twisted sense of humor! – ed]

Ssurayal has only one inhabitant: a hermit named Haggopyá who lives in a
well-fortified house on the surface by the entrance to the underground
regions. He's friendly, though aloof, and speaks Tsolyani somewhat. I think
he is from western Salarvya or possibly Tsolyanu, but he never talks about
himself. Travellers can get some advice from him - but no secrets.

Ssurayal was the headquarters of the human guards who were set to watch
over the Ssu "reservation." After the end of the Latter Times the place was
pretty much abandoned. There are still some surface ruins there, as well as
a complex of mostly destroyed underground centres, including living
quarters, weapons chambers, intelligence-gathering devices, and even a
spacecraft or two.

There isn't much left to find. It's been looted by the departing humans, by
various warlords of the Latter Times, and by the Ssu, of course. The exit
is difficult -- up through narrow crevices to the surface.

Ssuganar is much more difficult. No tubeway cars go there. It was the
headquarters of the Ssu themselves before the Time of Darkness. It is still
visited by parties of Ssu, and there is more danger than even a strong
party can handle.

The Far North

The Black Ships

These are common knowledge in the ports of Yan Kor and Pijjena. The Black
Ships come from over the Pole -- apparently there are ways around the ice
cap that lies about 30 hexes north of the northernmost hex you can see on
the Zocchi map. The Black Ships contain leather-clad traders and warriors
who seek gold, furs, fancy goods, etc. in Yan Kor and the south. They do
not often disembark, and they never leave their ships to travel southward
by land. Some seem to have sorcerous powers, while others are reputed to be
fine warriors and sailors. They have not been a major problem. I suppose
one could take passage on one of these ships and go across the pole. But
rumour has it that those kingdoms are ruled by Hokun, who use humans as
slaves.

The Far South

The Urunen

The Urunen are interesting. They are so far from "north Tekumel" that they
had little idea of the great human empires there. They are reachable only
via tubeway car, and this is perilous at best. Their society is quite
different from those of north Tekumel. They do not worship the same
pantheon found in the Engsvanyali-derived cultures of the Five Empires.
They get along with some Hokun and are in perpetual combat with other Hokun
states (there are several).

A couple of high officials from Avanthar found their way down there via
tubeway car after Dhich'une took over Avanthar. The Urunen were hospitable
but puzzled. These exiles were so lonely and so lost away from their
familiar surroundings that they finally left -- in spite of the obvious
dangers of returning to Tsolyanu.



History & Background

The Historical Empires

The Fisherman Kings

There is no "proper" name for this "empire"; during the Fisherman Kings'
period, the northeast was divided into provinces, although these tended to
be ephemeral, vague at the boundaries, and often semi-autonomous. The
Bednalljans called their empire by a variety of names, too, depending on
who was in power, which capital was currently running the local show, etc.
As I recall, there was no one single name that endured for any length of
time. Palikollán is one that did endure for a few hundred years, but it
only referred to the centre of the Fisherman Kings' domain and the coast of
western Salarvya.

As far as language is concerned, the Fisherman Kings spoke a group of
dialects of ancient Salarvyani. These are related closely to Bednalljan
Salarvyani, of course. Their scripts were different -- some are still not
deciphered.

Engsvanyalu

Architecture

Tombs

Engsvanyali tombs differ from place to place and period to period -- after
all, the term "Engsvanyali" covers an epoch about twice as long as recorded
human history on earth from ancient Egypt to the present. The so-called
"High" Period of Engsvanyalu (or Engsvan hla Ganga, as it is alternatively
known) found the Priestkings building massive colonnades, within which
there is a single tall stela of polished marble standing high on a
platform, inscribed with the titles, deeds, etc. of the tomb's owner.
Somewhere in the neighborhood is a flne slab or series of slabs of very
hard stone, underneath which is a tunnel filled with carefully interlocking
stone blocks. Beneath these, in turn, is a series of chambers leading
through a maze of tunnels to various false doors, traps, pits, etc., and
finally to a corridor lined with storerooms for the goods of the deceased.
The chief deity of the dead person's faith usually has a shrine along this
corridor or at the end of it, facing in the appropriate direction. Altars,
religious icons, etc. fill this place, and the remains of ancient
sacrifices may still lie in flat platters amongst these objects. Somewhere
here -- or back in the labyrinth -- is another series of staircases, doors,
false tunnels, and traps that lead down to the burial place (or places:
sometimes the deceased may be buried with his family, relatives, pets,
slaves, etc., although the Engsvanyali did not practice the custom of
slaughtering these people when the master died. (The Bednalljans did that.)
There are more grave goods here, and more devious traps. The Bednalljans
thought in terms of great blocks of stone or pits opening beneath the feet
of tomb robbers, but the Engsvanyali tend to be more delicate and tricky:
e.g. corridors that turned or tilted, or suddenly opened into chambers
filled with water or vermin. Tomb robbery in the Age of the Priestkings was
not a healthy profession!

All of the above applies to the wealthiest, of course: the Priestkings,
their Governors, nobles, and high officials. Middle-class burials consist
of flat stone or brick trapezoidal pyramids, on whose flat tops stand
stelae engraved with the titles and deeds of the occupant. A single stone
shaft then leads straight down to a massive plug of basalt or other hard
stone that protects a very small chamber in which the deceased lies
interred in a simple stone sarcophagus. Smaller graves around the perimeter
of this chamber may contain wives, relatives, etc.

One of the characteristic features of the Engsvanyali tomb builders is
their dependence upon small, well-cut stones for walls, floors, etc. Some
of these are actually interlocked with carved "keys," rather like a Lego
set. The ancient Bednalljans of the First Imperium prefer mighty stone
blocks that are often so well joined and carved to fit one another that
mortar is unnecessary, but the Engsvanyali are much more "dainty":
trellises and lattices of marble and semi-precious stones surround the
graves of the Excellent Dead, and the sarcophagi of the Priestkings glow
with gems and gold. Those who collect Engsvanyali artwork can add further
details and describe some of the finer pieces from this long epoch.

The graves of the middle and lower classes are usually simple stone or
brick chambers in one of the great "Cities of the Dead," filled with
coffins, crammed with simple grave goods, and covered with sand and dirt to
keep them hidden from the inevitable tomb-robber. A grave stone carved with
"deeds" (usually quotations cribbed from some text) stands well away from
the actual tomb itself, so that the location of the chamber cannot be
recognised. Sadly, the tomb robbers have come to recognise all of the
strategems and ploys, and in many cases an experienced thief can glance at
a gravestone and point precisely to the location of the buried tomb below!

Grave goods of the middle classes consist of personal jewellery, pottery
filled with food and drink for the long journey to the Isles of Teretane,
possessions, weapons, clothing, and all of the trappings of the deceased's
life on Tekumel. Mummified dogs, cats, Kuni-birds, and other pets are often
"sent along for company," and a few coins may be added as well to pay the
guides and guardians along the Way. These tombs are not rich and will repay
only the lowest and hungriest tomb-robber.

Engsvanyali tombs consist of a great many styles and varieties, of course,
ranging from domed chambers with stelae in front, to square blocks of black
basalt that overlie deep grave pits, to towers on the tops of which the
dead are laid out in terracotta coffins, to narrow, tricky tunnels that
wind beneath the earth, to tall, thin triangular monuments built over
labyrinthine corridors leading down and away to secret chambers far below,
to -- almost anything. Some periods desired to return to the monolithic
architecture of the Bednalljan past, of course, and only an expert in the
iconography of these periods can tell which is Bednalljan and which is
later Engsvanyali. Near the end of the Priestkings' period, just before the
sinking of Ganga, it also seems that there was some sort of societal
collapse. Tomb architecture suffered the same fate as civil and military
building: poorly constructed edifices, flamboyant, bizarre, and rococo art
styles, hasty burials, corrupted texts, and badly copied religious scenes
fill the crowded necropoli, and the fine-cut stones of the Great Period
give way to shoddy stucco, mortar, and brick. Most tomb robbers simply
ignore such graves.

Without knowing just which city, which period, and which particular
necropolis site is concerned, it is hard to be more precise than this.

The Fall of Gánga

The sinking of Ganga is fraught with legend and story. There was probably
both a gradual subsidence and also a short, sharp catastrophe. The
Priestkings apparently opted to stay with their palaces and gardens,
although this is probably an exaggeration: many must have quietly fled to
higher ground.

The story has it that the waters roared down into the ancient underworld
below the City of Ganga, drowning the tombs and catacombs, hurling the
revered dead from their coffins, and bringing the roofs down with a thunder
the like of which "no God had ever heard." There is no record of what
happened to the creatures, guardians, and inhabitants of the tomb cities,
but it is probable that most perished -- some may have got away across the
Straits to what was then the pleasant woodland of Gilraya -- and is now a
waterlogged morass. Even with a near-instantaneous catastrophe, there must
have been time for many denizens of the dark to win free and vanish to
parts unknown.

There are few contemporary records, and some of those are too wound up with
mythological meanderings to be reliable as "history" (compare Plato on the
subject of Atlantis, or various Middle Eastern sources on the Flood). The
story of the Hero of the Age, the Warrior-Hero Kokun, and his attempts to
defeat the Demons from Beyond, who brought about the sinking, take up a
good part of the epic poetry dealing with this period. Kokun failed,
betrayed by a woman, and then by comrades who were not strong enough to
succeed him. Hence, it is said, mighty Ganga sank, all in one long day
during a beautiful summer day (exact Tsolyani date unknown). There had been
rumblings and subsidences for some years, and the more timid folk had
already left the island, some fleeing to Thayuri, some to Vra, some as far
as Jakalla. The story has it that the island shivered once, twice, thrice,
and then tilted gracefully to the east, bowing to the Lord Sun when he
rose, and then disappeared beneath the waves. The accompanying roar and
tumult was, literally, the end of the world for many. They say that the
death of Ganga could be heard as far away as Thraya, though this may be
hearsay. The tidal waves that roared in did take out most of the coastal
cities as far away as Penom! All was dark, clouds of vapour and dust filled
the sky, and the gods ground their mighty teeth together in horror...

This was the first of what seems to have been a long readjustment of the
tectonic plates: northern Yan Kor rose, and the shallow inner sea was
replaced with lowlands where Rulla and Eer and Go'on stand today. THe
Desert of Sighs itself seems to be the lowest point of an ancient sea
bottom. The catastrophe had ramifications in Mu'ugalavya and Salarvya, and
high tides plagued Livyanu for years thereafter.

Many of the folk of Ganga had had warning and managed to get away. Much of
their moveable property was saved along with them. Others refused to move,
feeling that the Gods would take care of them -- which they did, as one
poet put it, "by throwing open the gates to the Paradises of the Isles of
Teretane."

The sinking of mighty Ganga still stands as one of the most moving and
terrifying calamities that ever occurred. Far greater than one volcanic
island of Thera (modern Santorini: where Atlantis is supposed have been),
the fall of Ganga shook both the physical and the political world to its
foundations. The forces of disruption soon triumphed over the shaken
remnants of the Priestkings' administration, and whole provinces broke away
within a few decades. The "lost armies" that had gone as far as old Mihallu
and lost Tane, could not get home again and either perished or sent down
roots and became local folk. Even the language slowly perished, giving way
to the modern tongues of the Five Empires.

The wings of the dark covered the eyes of light, as the poets say.

There are some sources, but not many that give realistic pictures of this
period. Most, as said above, are wound about with myth and story to the
point that they are of little use as histories. If you are interested,
"Pogurdikh hiKolumebabardali" by Kerulya Kettumridal of Jakalla is perhaps
the most readable, although a knowledge of Engsvanyali is assumed.



The Modern Empires

Llivyánu

Names & Clans

Most Livyani male names end in -z: (-az, -uz, -ez are common), and women's
names end in -b (-eb or -ab are most frequent). Thus, Meluaz, Arvaz,
Chorguz, Alitheb, Ekkuneb, Dailab, Nalueb, Mikonez and his sister Mikonab,
etc. Lineage names do not use anything like the hi- the Tsolyani employ:
thus e.g. Tarshaz Arrio Baghaz Khuer, Noldeb Tikkuna. The clan names are
indeed different from those in Tsolyanu but are rather similar
semantically: e.g. Gilded Wing, High Singing Bird, Mighty Blue-Green Wave.

Some clans are "high" in one city and "medium" or even "low" elsewhere.
This is especially true of Livyanu, where local temples are the social
arbiters and rulers, and where a clan belongingto a highly regarded (and
economically powerful) temple may be seen as higher than the same clan in
another city. The ruling clan of Tsamra was the Gilded Wing -- until the
Mu'ugalavyani invasion. Now it is still high because it is the clan of the
puppet ruler (like the Vichy Government of Nazi-occupied France).

Tsolyanu

Avanthar

Protections

The region around Avanthar is one of the most carefully protected,
magically impenetrable places on Tekumel. This probably dates from the
Latter Times but may have been enhanced by the Engsvanyali. As far as I
know, it has only been penetrated by interplanar travellers a VERY few
times in history, and then usually by mistake from planes that were not
known or which were thought not to impinge on Avanthar.

The ancient planetary defenses from before the Time of Darkness are also
said to be still operative, sleeping in caverns on the mountaintop. I only
recall one party that flew over Avanthar in an aircar. The effect was
rather like a ring of blazing light that rose swiftly from the citadel and
enveloped the car. Apparently it was not set to instant destruction because
the car continued to limp on southward and crashed in the Bay of Jakalla!
Apparently the weapons are either automatic or else can be set to repel
invaders with different degrees of intensity.

The Kolumejalim

There cannot be a Kolumejalim until the present Emperor is officially dead,
certified by the priesthoods (usually Hnalla and Belkhanu in the case of
Stability-worshipping Emperors, and by Hnalla and the relevant deity in the
case of those who serve Change). Once the announcement of the ruler's death
is made, a few days, weeks, or even months pass while the funeral is held,
various ceremonies are performed, and everybody sorts themselves out. Then
the Temple of Hnalla (never any other) makes the proclamation of a
Kolumejalim, sending out invitations to the known heirs. Declarations of
eligibility come in from heirs (and their patrons) who have been kept
concealed, and once the Omnipotent Azure Legion has authenticated this
"short list," a time and place are chosen, champions selected and
announced, etc. It's quite an interesting process.

The interregnum is a time of nervous politicking. The previous Godking is
said to rule (even though actually deceased) until his successor formally
enters the Golden Tower and appears behind the screen of the Petal Throne.
In reality, this is a clearly understood fiction. This is often a time for
unrest, for factions to arise and claim this or that -- and for the
candidates for the Kolumejalim to gather support and march in procession to
Bey Su, where the Kolumejalim is always held. Violence can and does occur,
although traditional childhood training, and the rigid, formal, strictures
of Tsolyani society prevent it from happening as often as one might expect
here.

The Kolumejalim of Prince Dhich'une

As I recall, Dhich'une's coup took place in the last Intercalary days of
2365. There was a short interregnum, and then Dhich'une held what he
considered a Kolumejalim in early 2366. He then took the throne in early
summer. The priesthood of Hnalla concurred and declared him Emperor, and he
then took the ceremonial trip up the river to Avanthar and was taken into
the Golden Tower. I think the whole process took no more than a week.

It appears that Prince Dhich'une had the High Chancellor, Lord Chaimira,
brought before him and demanded a Kolumejalim. Enough time had passed, he
said, and the Empire had no monarch. The Temple of Hnalla is obligated to
provide a Kolumejalim within reasonable time limits. These had never been
formally defined. The Temple of Hnalla said that a Kolumejalim could not be
held as long as all of the viable candidates were not present. Dhich'une
knew Eselne and Mirusiya were away at war in the north, and Princess Ma'in
was no threat. Prince Rereshqala had not declared himself as a candidate.
Dhich'une and his supporters then demanded that a Kolumejalim be held,
whether candidates could reach it or not--national security, and all that
-- and at length the temple prelates agreed. He did send invitations to
both of the major heirs, although he knew they could not get free from the
war and arrive in time. The thing was shoddily done, which is why many
people were not satisfied just to let him remain Emperor. There have been
Sarku Emperors before, and the Imperium has survived, but this was too much
for the staid and sober clan-leaders of Tsolyanu. When Eselnne and Mirusiya
did manage to get back, they found readymade factions waiting to follow
them.

Not much is known about some of the internal politicking that went on
during this period -- it's probably pretty shameful! But I doubt whether
Dhich'une had to conspire with the temple of Hnalla in any really
conspiratorial sense; all he had to do was to do away with the present
Emperor and the likely local candidate, Prince Mridobu; then he could
honestly point out that the other viable candidates were far away, fighting
dangerous battles from which they might not return for years or not at all.
A glance toward Mu'ugalavyaand its adventures in Livyanu, and toward
Salarvya and its pressure on the eastern flank would be all that would be
needed to send the Stability temples scurrying for a solution.

The Princes have always had more power than appears on the surface. It must
have taken some exceedingly delicate planning to get rid of Mridobu, but
Dhich'une has had help from various places (Planes, too!), that must have
got past the defences. As for the Temple of Hnalla, they were under
pressure to solve the succession quickly, in view of the war in Yan Kor and
the fear of Mu'ugalavyani and Salarvyani invasions. A period without an
Emperor is always a shaky one, and perhaps the priesthoods decided that
instability might be fine on paper, but in politics it is dangerous for the
social order. Surundano was an ackonlwedged wimp; Arimala was a fine
sculptress but not in the least interested in becoming Empress. The other
hidden heirs (e.g. Taksuru) were caught off guard and unprepared. Now
they've had time to plan. It will be different this time.

It is theorised -- but not known for certain -- that Mridobu escaped from
Avanthar the same night his father was unceremoniously translated to the
Isles of Teretane. Dhich'une discreetly hunted high and low for him but
never found him -- until he reappeared much later with a Ksarul contingent
which tried to pull off a coup in Avanthar while Dhich'une was away (yes,
Emperors do occasionally slip out of the Golden Tower, and he had some very
important business in the City of Sarku). No one knows exactly how Mridobu
got away, and no one knows where he is now. It is thought that when
Dhich'une's undead friends came up out of the basement at Avanthar and did
away with Mridobu's coup personnel, that either Mridobu died in the
fighting, or else he may have been captured -- or killed. No one knows.

Life of Prince Taksuru

[This article seems to have been written about mid summer 2367 – ed.]

Prince Taksuru is another of the "hidden" Princes. The Tsolyani encourage
the great clans, temples, and powerful families to take one of the
Emperor's children just after birth and bring him or her up away from the
Court. In this way, the reasoning goes, the empire will be assured of
candidates who are not just pampered and spoiled princelings, who have no
experience with reality. For this reason, Prince Mirusiya was handed over
to the Vriddi clan of Fasiltum, and he grew up there not knowing who he was
until the Omnipotent Azure Legion was instructed to offer him the "Gold."
The clan saw to his education, training, and progress, and if he had shown
signs of weakness, they would have quietly shunted him off to live out his
life as a simple clansman somewhere. They would have reported his failings
to the Omnipotent Azure Legion, and the latter would never have given him a
chance at the Throne.

Thus it was with Taksuru hiTlakotani. He was raised in the Cloak of Azure
Gems clan in Bey Su and was told he was a Viridame, an old and
famouslineage. He was educated in the temple schools, entered the
priesthood of Lord Ksarul, and was trained in a variety of fighting and
scholarly skills. His tutors never told him who he was but quietly
encouraged him to enroll in the subjects they knew he would need for the
Kolumejalim, the "Choosing of Emperors."

He was contacted by various agents of the Throne, as well as his temple
authorities, and the consensus was that he would someday be ripe for
revealing: when the time came, an agent of the Petal Throne would appear
and offer him the "Gold." (He now says that he guessed his true identity as
early as his twelfth birthday, when his teachers discouraged him from
learning music and art and directed him towards sorcery and unarmed combat
skills instead.)

He remained under the eagle eyes of his clan, his temple, and the
Omnipotent Azure Legion all during his adolescence. Eventually he was
introduced to Lady Kalusu hiViridame, who was of the same lineage but of a
different clan (Hand of Darkness). She is a "Marek": an ancient and
secretive body of guardians who are charged with watching over important
people, candidates for the Throne, and the like, without ever revealing
their identities or powers. Taksuru liked her, but she was not terribly
fond of him, being smitten with a certain powerful northern ruler and
having higher plans for herself than "playing nursemaid" (as she put it) to
a young man (who was almost the same age!).

Taksuru grew up to be a handsome, rather serious, taciturn young man. He is
strong, intelligent, always balanced and watchful, and quite talented.
Whether he is good enough to defeat the other candidates for the Petal
Throne or not remains to be seen. He is not equal to Dhich'une in sorcery,
nor to Eselne in sheer physical power, nor to Rereshaqala in diplomacy, nor
to Mirusiya in leadership of troops. But Taksuru's combination of talents
may be enough to survive, especially since the others are weaker than he is
in one or more of the requisite talents.

The temple of Ksarul prefers him over Mridobu, who was more of a bureaucrat
and less fervent in his religious observances. Prince Mridobu would have
kept Taksuru from being revealed, however, because he himself wanted to be
his temple's candidate, and his clique within the temple and Imperial power
structure could have kept those who favoured Taksuru away from the
limelight. Mridobu lost his chance when Dhich'une out-manouevred him and
got to the Petal Throne after Hirkane died (or was slain). Now it's too
late, probably, for Mridobu. He may even be already dead.

Taksuru is thus the only hope of the Ndalu Clan and related factions in the
temples of Hru'u, Gruganu, and Wuru. He is acceptable to the other temples
because he seems to be a balanced and non-fanatic young man, who would not
rock too many boats or take out his pique upon those who disagreed with
him. He can get along, it is thought, even with Hnalla, Thumis, and
Belkhanu, although he has little to recommend him to Karakan, Vimuhla, or
to Avanthe and Dlamelish. At least he is not openly hostile.

In view of current political developments, Taksuru has had to make an
uneasy alliance with Prince Mirusiya and the Vimuhla faction. Politics does
indeed make strange bedfellows. It is rumoured that some deal has been
struck which leaves Mirusiya on the throne and Taksuru as Chancellor-- or
vice-versa, perhaps, with Tksuru as Emperor and Mirusiya as First General.
How this will play out is not yet known, if such a deal exists at all.

The Baron of Yan Kor has worked with Taksuru, after he had learned his
lesson from Dhich'une's duplicity and betrayal. He may have something to
say about all of this, of course, as may Rereshqala and Eselne. The other
Princes and Princess Ma'in can probably be safely ignored.

Origins of The Empire & the Tlakotani Clan

In Avanthar the great Book of Deeds contains all of the early facts, but no
one is permitted to consult it. The Tlakotanis are very sly and secretive
about their origins. Somewhere in the north, it is supposed, since The
Petal Throne is said to have been shipped from Malchairan in N'luss (where
it was apparently found) to Tsolyanu at the end of the Engsvanyali Era. It
was set up as an icon of the Tlakotani during the reigns of the first
Emperors (who can be sure of just which one?).

Not much more is known -- publicly.

          Symbols of the Empire and The Emperor

The Emperor

For somebody to talk to, the Emperor has access to the Hall of the Petal
Throne, where he can speak to his subjects. A very few high officers of the
Omnipotent Azure Legion also are allowed to speak to him from within
specially designed private rooms, where he can see them but they cannot see
him. The OAL also brings concubines and wives into the Golden Tower for his
delectation; these are kept closely watched and segregated, but they may
actually touch his sacred person, when he wishes.

All in all, it's not too bad a life...

The Jade Arch

The Jade Arch stands in one of the underground side chambers of Avanthar.
It is said to impart a complete and slavish loyalty to the God-Emperor when
one walks through it. It has not been used much in recent years, however,
because it is said that the mind control it instils has now grown a bit
skewed and unreliable. The device dates from the days of the Lords of the
Latter Times, and it is probably growing a bit cranky with age!

It is not part of the Petal Throne. It is in a completely separate room
under Avanthar, while the Hall of the Petal Throne is nearly at the top,
just inside. From this, there are passageways that lead out onto the top of
the mountain, and other corridors lead on to the base of the Golden Tower,
in which the God-Emperor is immured.

The Petal Throne

The Petal Throne was brought from Malchairan sometime after the fall of the
Engsvanyali Empire. No one knows who by or why or how. It is actually not a
"throne" in the Western European sense (a glorified chair), but rather a
screen of translucent jade-like substance carved in intricate arabesques,
lattices, whorls, and designs so delicate that the magical stories of how
it was transported to Avanthar may actually have some truth to them. It
covers the entire front of a hidden room behind it, in which the Emperor
sits (with a lighted lamp to show he is physically present). In the room
behind the screen, it is said that there is a carved jade chair or seat
upon which the Emperor sits. Technically, this jade screen and the throne
upon which he sits are all considered to be the "Petal Throne."

The Minor States

Pechano

Origins

Pechano is one of the daughter-states of the old Engsvanyali Empire. The
Priestkings split the region into two Governorships: one based in
Tsatsayagga, the other in Mechaneno. The southern one expanded, while the
northern one remained small and limited, locked in eternal battle with the
Ssu. There are many similarities between Pechano and Salarvya, but the
Pechani are much more open, less greedy, and more harebrained and heroic.

Non-Humans

Mihalli

Most human legends show the Mihalli as alien,whimsical, and quite
uintelligible. They never did show much interest in human society or in
"teaching" humanity. A VERY, VERY few have ever even bothered to talk to
us.

What the Tsolyani temples teach as "Mihalli" language is probably a joke to
the Mihalli themselves: "Pidgin Mihalli." On the level of "Great White
Father teach-um brain surgery!" There are only a few texts (that are
readable), and these may be later simplifications and distortions by people
like the wizard Metallja. I have some lexemes and a little grammar, but it
is pretty sorry stuff. The "Great" Mihalli inscriptions (in the caves out
in what is now Mihallu -- occupied almost exclusively by humans, as you
probably know) are still 99% unintelligible. You should have heard the
silly theories last year at the conference the Temple of Thumis held at
Paya Gupa!

I suspect the Lords of the Latter Times had a lot to do with making Mihalli
a language for arcane books. I don't think The Book of Eyes was really
written by any actual Mihalli -- just put into the language the humans
THOUGHT was Mihalli. What the Mihalli said about it is not recorded. They
do have technological devices (the "Globes of Instant Eventuation"), but
how they see technology is not intelligible to the human mind.

Ssu

History

The Ssu did (do?) have some technology -- in human terms. They did not have
the interstellar Three Light drive, but they were on the verge of
inter-stellar flight on very slow vessels powered by some other method. No
one now knows exactly what was used and how far they got. The "Ssu mine"
dates from the last phase of their culture(s), just before humans invaded
and smashed them flat. It probably was modelled after some device the Ssu
had seen with the Pe Choi, the Shunned Ones, or some other interstellar
race that happened to land on pre-human Tekumel. This is all conjecture --
it happened so long ago..!



Languages

Sunuz

Sunuz is not genetically related to Duru'ob, but there are CLOSE
connections. Zna'ye and Ai Che are linguistically from totally different
families, but there are theological and conceptual relationships that
deserve exploring.

Ai Che

Ai Che is such a pesky language. I myself am not enamoured of tone
languages. So much has also been concealed under acres of tribal religion
and "superstititon," too, that it's hard to winnow out the facts from the
fancies.

Inimical Races

Attempts at communication with the hostile races have indeed been tried
over the years, and some have had interesting results. But it is sort of
like the American Medical Association giving a proctological exam to
Godzilla! Not very likely...!

Somebody once found the island in the outer oceans where Grey Ssu, Black
Ssu, and humankind all dwell side by side. The humans and the Ssu could
only manage a few simple vocables of each other's languages, but they
shared certain tasks and avoided bothering each other. As I recall, these
particular groups had been isolated since before the Time of Darkness and
had never learned to hate each other. But this was only a gaming
experiment, and nobody ever wanted to continue it or to bring these
"friendly Ssu" back to Tsolyanu. The good, normal, civiised citizens of the
Five empires would have been horrified and made short work of such
emissaries of cultural diversity!

The way things on Tekumel are NOW, it would be next to impossible to
communicate. Both sides mutually hate one another, and frames of reference,
linguistic structures, thought processes, etc. etc. are all too alien to
get much across.



Biology

Artificial Life

The Heheganu and Hehecharu

The Heheganu and Hehecharu may well be mutated human stock, created during
the Latter Times by some local warlord to serve as population in the misty
swamps around old Purdimal. Some think they are indeed creations of the
Temple of Ksarul, but for what reason? The Lord of the Blue Room is indeed
the most powerful deity in Purdimal, as he is in Hmakuyal and a few other
enclaves, but I don't see the need for his followers to modify a separate
genetic group just so they can harvest Ssar-wood in the morasses around the
city! Must have been some other reason.

Magic

Religions & Magic

Magic is NOT controlled by the gods or even very relevant to them: spells
are probes or thrusts that reach through the Planes to draw power through
into Tekumel's world. The spell is then manifested according to a
"gestalt": a "circuit board" (rather like a computer programme, by
analogy). The spell is thus tailored to fit the theology of the temple or
deity its creators follow. The temples, over the millennia, have developed
"ladders" of spells, spell teaching methods, spell workbooks -- all sorts
of methods of keeping their magic safely THEIRS. The same must be true of
the Ssu or the Hluss.

Who else can successfully teach, practice, and use such dangerous powers?
There can be very few "loose" wizards (or scientists) on any world. King
Arthur always kept Merlin around the castle -- and those who developed the
atomic bomb or deadly biological weapons are not likely to be let go free
to wander around and possibly peddle their wares elsewhere, eh?

The religious "dressing" is really irrelevant to Tekumelani "magic," just
as one's nationality is irrelevant to operating an electric circuitboard.
Yes, the Ssu, the Hluss, and the Shunned Ones are good at magic. They have
psychic abilities and powers of learning. Some say that somehow, through
intermediate neutral races, the hostile races may have had something to do
with teaching this kind of "magic" to humankind in the first place ...???

I am puzzled by the suggestion by some that "liberation from religious
dogma" could possibly make "magic" "better" (or "worse?"). I don't see a
real connection. One might jokingly ask whether Catholic Fathers can
successfully use an electric razor as well as atheists can? Hmm? Tekumel is
a strongly religious place, but the nature of magic is almost as
"irreligious" as one can find. It works. It can be "dressed up" in a
variety of costumes, but it still works. Another analogy is that of script
(the alphabet): one can write Chinese in Roman script or in its own
character, and it is still Chinese. The basis of magic is not at all
theological on Tekumel. It is very much dressed up to look like it, but
look closely.

There are some limitations on the uses of spell powers on Tekumel due to
belief. For instance, the Temple of Sarku is not interested in spells that
improve the local rainfall, although Lady Avanthe's people find this very
important and useful. (Ever shot one of the Undead with a spell of
Revivification? He will HATE you ...)

General Magical Observations

Individuals of Great Ability

There are some very sensitive individuals. There's a priestess of Belkhanu
from Thraya named Dzai who could not stay and face the demons and
Other-Planer beings inhabiting the Valley of Kashkomai, some of my friends
are now. She was so shaken that she begged for an escort and returned to
Sokatis! As far as "psychotic" goes, there probably are such beings, and
most of them are put to death whenever and wherever found. This may be seen
as inhumane, but the Five empires value the social fabric more than the
individual.

Magical ability is not directly inherited, as far as I know, although there
may be recessive genes for it -- or for the sort of mental sensitivity that
engenders it. There are no "great families of mages" that I have seen. A
pair of twins might logically inherit the sensitivity needed to produce
dual magical power. Highly unusual, however. And be sure that if they are
really good, that there is some agent of the Omnipotent Azure Legion (and
possibly other agencies, governments, sects, etc. etc.) watching to see if
kidnapping and using them as magical flunkies would not be useful!

Psychic ability may lie dormant in a family for a generation or two. Hence,
it may seem to the scholars of Tekumel that it is indeed a "gift of the
gods," and not something over which humans can have much control. Earlier
peoples, particularly the Lords of the Latter Times, may have tried to do
more with breeding and technological controls, but this does not seem to
have survived, except in the proliferation of "species" that have stable
and strongly dominant genes.

Most high mages seem to be the product of individual circumstances and
training. A few are rather like Merlin: aloof and devoted to their arts.
Others are more social, or are so used to wealth and power that they
willingly serve the nobles and prelates who run the societies of Tekumel.

New Magics

On Tekumel, it takes years of experimentation, with lots of mistakes and
sometimes sad results to produce new magics. (Read the Book of Ebon
Bindings!).

Many spell variants are simply extensions of some listed spell (e.g. a 50
foot range instead of a 30 foot range). Many of these were NOT included in
the temple canons because their results are unpredictable and "shaky": like
a new type of grenade that may explode in the thrower's hand. There are,
however, various really different spells that could have been added. If it
is really new and different, it may be secreted away in a vault somewhere
-- as people have said of such "inventions" on our world as a razor blade
that never gets dull, an automobile that uses only a thimbleful of fuel per
thousand kilometres, etc. These may be "fables," or there may be some truth
to them.

If a spell is not too innovative, it is usually added as a "variant" to the
old spell nearest to it in content and effect.

Public Knowledge of Magic & Sorcery

Magic is prevalent enough that illusionists and minor sorcerers can make a
Kaitar or two showing off giant Shen or flaming-eyed Serudla at village
fairs. People know about sorcery, but it is not common enough -- and most
folk are not wealthy enough -- to afford revivification spells, high-level
healing spells, etc. Hence, the continued need for physicians -- and
funeral directors from the Temple of Lord Belkhanu! People know about
sorcery, they SEE sorcery performed (just as I can watch a stage magician),
and sometimes if they are lucky they can benefit from sorcery -- but it is
not so common as to make other endeavours and skills useless.

Basis of Magic

Magical Power

We always see the Planes Beyond as separate "places," occupied by energy
and matter in the same way our Plane is. But the "power" for "magic" seems
to come from the "In-Between Spaces," where there is nothing but inchoate
energy. Spells are minor enough that they do not seem to affect the power
from Beyond, either in quantity or quality. The "balance" might thus take a
LOT of spell-use to disturb.

Pedhetl

It is not possible to expand one's Pedhetl. There are certain "enhancers,"
and even technological devices that will do this temporarily -- and
sometimes with disastrous results -- but in general, this is not possible.

Spell Casting

My own interpretation of Tekumel "magic" is more technological than
"religious" or "sorcerous" or "thaumaturgical," or whatever term you wish
to use. I see "magic" as pulling energy through the "skin of reality" into
Tekumel's Plane, where it is "moulded" ("shaped," transformed"?) into
substance or other kinds of energy by mental "gestalts" or "mind-sets"
rather like computer programs. One learns these as a student in the
temples, practices until they become absolutely rote, then pulls them up
with key words, gestures, and mental conceptualisations. More complex
spells require more actions, vocalisations, and the like, including "props"
like incense, candles, and diagrams (probably other items would do, but
these are traditional in the temples).

The Great Ancients learned to do this when they ran out of iron and other
technological materials and could get no more. The peoples of the Latter
Times then expanded on this body of learning and worked out the lattices
and gestalts needed to produce many of the spells known today. Other
scholars have worked on these disciplines since, and now there is quite a
corpus of known "software."

Undead

General Observations

One who wishes to maintain an arms supply for the Undead can easily do so.
Chlen-hide weapons can be obtained easily, but degrade over a long time.
The temples know the way down to the lairs of their own underworld
guardians and can carry down new weapons and armour from time to time.
Another way is to provide bronze weapons -- these also corrode, but much
more slowly than Chlen-hide. The Temples of Sarku and Durritlamish use a
type of "enchanted" (specially treated) copper, which lasts a very long
time. There are also enough steel weapons to be found in the labyrinths to
keep at least some of the more active Undead well-armed. The metals of the
Great Ancients (before the Time of Darkness) are also available, and though
they cannot now be worked (the technology is lacking), splinters and shards
of these materials are often mounted on hilts and used as swords, stabbing
picks, hammers, etc.

Most citizens of the Five empires would be strongly against open power
wielded by one or the Undead. Since most of the inhabitants of these
nations are "alive" (as opposed to "Undead"), any open attempt to rule by
the latter would lead to great social unrest, desertions from the armies,
etc. The Temples of Sarku and Durritlamish thus treat the Undead as
"adepts" (revered, holy beings), and do not permit them to rule. There is
also, apparently, a loss of interest on the part of the Undead in temporal
power: after all, what good are money, sex, physical prowess, property,
etc. to the Undead? As long as Sarku's religious objectives are achieved,
the Undead seem content (if that is the right word) to act as mentors,
advisors, sages, etc. and dwell in the darkened depths of their sect's
greatest temples.

I should note that the Undead are less common in "real" Tekumel than it may
appear to outsiders. Creating an Undead being takes considerable time,
expertise, and sorcerous hard work. The lowly Shedra are the commonest, but
these are merely animated liches. Most worshippers of the Worm Lord would
not want their loved ones turned into Mrur under any circumstances. A few -
mostly guardians for Underworld areas and tombs - are indeed created every
year; others dry up, wither, and fall to dust after some time unless
renewed by sorcery, and this, too, is a lengthy process. The next variety,
the Shedra, is somewhat more intelligent, able to think for itself
somewhat, and make a limited number of functional choices. Again, the
Shedra are rare, limited to the Underworlds, and really cannot appear in
polite society! The highest category, the Jajgi, actually comes in many
forms and varieties, ranging from semi-intelligent (but clearly deceased!)
to the rarest of all, the Undead who can function as a normal living being.
A Jajgi of this calibre can take part in society but cannot procreate.
These tend to be the highest adepts of the Temples of Sarku and
Durritlamish; they are scholars, sorcerers, and teachers of the Way of the
Sepulchre, the Inner Doctrine of the faith. (And don't ask me, please, to
define the "Way": not being Undead myself, I do not know it.)

Undead Emperors

Emperor Dhich'une is ASSUMED by many to be a Jajgi. He may also be a living
being, but imbued with one of the Aspects of his dread Lord. "Putting an
Aspect" upon a living person is a power the Gods seem to have. I recall
another Aspect of Lord Sarku, called Siyenagga, that was vouchsafed to a
human priest of his temple. There was also the case of an Aspect of Lord
Vimuhla, named Purukasai "the Burner of Cities," that was given to a human
warrior. Other cases are cited in the temple records. This is one of the
last and greatest benefits of devotion and worship: the deity grants you an
"Aspect." You then take on certain visible characteristics of the god and
have a few very advanced powers (though not to the limit of "godlike").

It would theoretically be possible to detect the fact that he is a Jajgi,
except that anybody with the power to turn an Imperial Prince into a Jajgi
would likely possess the power to conceal this fact from others. The
temples all have very powerful and experienced sorcerers, and a low-level
Detect Magic type of spell would see nothing except a living human being. I
suspect that it would take something very big indeed to "see through" the
disguise! It is more likely, as I said above someplace, that Dhich'une has
received one of the Aspects -- visual and personal identity -- of his dread
god.

If Emperor Dhich'une is actually a Jajgi, he must have gone on to attain
still higher powers than most of his Undead colleagues ever managed to
acquire. Previous Sarku-worshipping Emperors have existed in Tsolyani
history, but these seem to have been living beings (well... we think
so...). If Dhich'une is indeed one of the Undead, he must have retained the
human qualities of ambition, greed, and a need for power -- very unusual
for any Jajgi and rather contrary to Lord Sarku's teachings -- and this
would make him a very long-"lived" ruler, indeed! Tsolyani society would
certainly refuse to follow him, if this were proved to be the case, and his
Undead troops (who cannot be numerous and must be only a small bodyguard or
cohort of personal servitors) would not be able to save him from his
unwilling subjects!

Hypothetically, an Undead Jajgi Emperor would cetainly be able to last for
hundreds of years, but people would notice, and his supporters would drop
away. It is even considered "not cricket" to employ spells or magical
devices of revivification upon an Emperor. These are rare in "real Tekumel"
terms, and people tend to shy away from someone who has been "dead" and
embarked upon the long voyage to the Isles of Teretane. It just "ain't
normal."

Most Tsolyani prefer their colleagues, rulers, etc. to be "alive," just as
we do here, and all the Undead soldiers on Tekumel cannot make one's
subjects love and serve such a ruler. This is almost certainly one of the
problems Dhich'une is having -- and will continue to have -- in ruling the
Empire: people suspect he is missing a few crucial parts (like blood that
flows?), and thus Eselne, Rereshqala, Mirusiya, or even newly-revealed
Taksuru seem better to the average folks than he does.

In stories, of course, revivification is almost absolutely necessary in
order to avoid introducing new characters at every step. Most of our
favourite characters in myth have been "returned to life magically" more
than once. In real life this would be very difficult, very expensive, and
would create a number of social problems for the revivee and his/her
comrades.

Mrur

A Mrur is a form of undead, animated by necromantic sorcery. If you "kill"
it, somebody has to put the pieces together and work further magic on it.

Military Matters

Naval Matters

Ship Construction

Most Tsolyani and Mu'ugalavyani ships are clinker built; Salarvyani ships
vary, as do those of such smaller nations as Haida Pakala. I don't have
much information on the Yan Koryani ships of the northern sea. Livyanu and
the Shen also prefer clinker built ships, but they are not as well
designed. In the case of the Shen, the emphasis is on massive, and the hull
is covered with thick black gum (like pitch) that becomes smooth and hard.

Arms

Greek fire has not been developed, but bundles of burning wood, stones
heated red hot, etc. are occasionally cast from artillery. The Hlaka are
sometimes trained to drop firepots on enemy ships, but they hate travelling
by ship and tend to head for the nearest land!

Protection

It may be noted that both rams and catapults are common on Tsolyani,
Salarvyani, and Mu'ugalavyani vessels. The Shen use rams but only
occasionally have artillery on their ships.

Various ship-types have rams designed for various purposes [i.e. against
rowers or for sinking]. It is hard to say at any given time just how many
of each ram-armed vessel there are.

Law

Citizenship

Becoming a citizen is relatively easy: long term residence in Tsolyanu,
service to the Empire, a clean record, plus a business or visible
occupation, etc. are what the Palace of the Realm will look at when a
foreigner comes to request the status of citizen.

Land Law

All land in the Tsolyani Empire belongs first to the Emperor. There is thus
no land that "no one owns." Not to worry -- unless you find something so
vital to the Imperium that the Chancery decides to claim it. In that case,
you would probably be visited by interested parties from other Princes,
from various temples, a few foreign powers, and maybe a nonhuman race or
two. If the swamp is on the land of a clan or fief or temple, of course, it
belongs to them as secondary claimants after the Imperium. If this is none
of the above is the case, you can certainly claim it by filing for it at
the Palace of the Realm in the city that is the local capital of the
province in which it exists.

Fiefs of land are all Imperial in nature and can be given, changed, or
taken away by the Emperor at any time. This applies both to "personal"
lands and to clan-based lands. Temples also own land (under the Emperor),
but corporations do not "own" land; their members do -- under the supreme
right of the Emperor, of course. The Emperor normally does not rock the
boat by depriving people of their hereditary clan lands or their personal
lands. This would cause a lot of opposition that he doesn't need. He can
confiscate anything, if he so desires and deems necessary. Getting it away
from its current owners is another story, of course, particularly in these
troubled times. Legally, Dhich'une could even deprive his siblings of their
Imperial titles and holdings and grant them his Sarku cronies. That would
make his hold on the Petal Throne even more unstable than it currently is,
and so he is very unlikely to try it.

Taxes

Imperial Tsolyani taxes are paid at the source when an item is first
produced. The factory adds this on to the price it charges a transport clan
or a middleman who buys the item for sale at a shop or to take to another
location. The Imperium usually charges between 5% and 20% by volume on
Tsuhoridu, depending on how much the factory is willing to pay in bribes to
the tax collectors. The factory then charges a profit of about 15% when
they sell it, to which the Imperial tax is added. You can then resell it at
about 75% - 150% more than its original production cost. but you must
include your transport costs, slaves, Chlen carts, guards, salespeople,
shop rental, etc. You may thus realise a final profit of perhaps 25% - 40%
more than you paid for it. No fixed figures can be given because of because
of the costs of bribes to officials, market police, Sakbe road officers,
etc. Additionally, there may be problems of supply, seasonal difficulties
in the processing of Tsuhoridu, labour problems, and the like.

There are forms, of course, which is a nice way of paying the requisite
bribes: "How much does a license cost...?" Bargaining is mandatory;
otherwise you won't be in business long! The Plague in Livyanu has
curtailed (but not completely cut off) the trade in Livyani goods, and the
Salarvyani incursions into southern Tsolyanu, the Gilraya Forest, and their
seizure of Fenul and Ru, have made it hard to get Salarvyani products --
some ships have been seized, and Salarvyani merchant caravans have been
looted.

Punishment

Expulsion from Clan

Expulsion from a clan is perhaps the greatest social sanction short of
imprisonment, enslavement, or outright execution. The person loses all
rights and has little or no legal recourse. His/her property is confiscated
by the clan. He/she is still a free citizen and can travel the Sakbe Roads,
but as a "Nakomé", he/she can be arrested, imprisoned, or killed with
little compunction. Any contracts, marriages, etc. with such a clanless
person are automatically dissolved (although a wife and children may elect
to stay with the person). It is not some-thing that can be taken lightly.
In our world it is not uncommon for people to disown their families, run
away to live on their own, marry "unsuitable" persons or just live together
outside of society's strictures, and generally thumb their noses at social
rules, but in Tsolyanu it is harder and more dangerous -- perhaps more like
what such actions would have brought about in earlier, mediaeval times
here. The clans are the governing force behind all of the institutions of
Tsolyanu; it is not wise to cross them.

Impalement

Impalements are fairly common since many common felonies (larger thefts,
burglary, rape, etc.) are capital offences in Tsolyanu. There is usually a
single site in each city where impaling stakes are erected on a regular
basis. Executed felons remain on these stakes (under guard, if need be),
until it is impossible for a revivification spell to work. After which, the
body is taken by the Prison Guards, to a corpse pit. After the body is
rendered not re-animatable, it is dumped into the pit. Some of these pits
in the larger cities are quite unpleasant

This is not one of the prettiest parts of Tsolyani life.
