[https://web.archive.org/web/20161225101657/http://home.earthlink.net/\~panchakahq/voices\_legion.html](https://web.archive.org/web/20161225101657/http://home.earthlink.net/~panchakahq/voices_legion.html)  
***A Personal View of Legion Life (What My Father Told Me)***

**Who are you?**  
Metkosu Teteng hiTolaya, Sergeant of the Third Troop of the  Western Company, Cohort V of the Legion of the Givers of Sorrow, 10th Heavy Infantry of the Empire, and Initiate in the Bands of the Lord of Red-Spouting Flame, fourth in living precedence in the senior line of the Tolaya lineage, within the Red Sky clan. I am also your junior side-father: your blood-father was my elder brother.

**Who are we?**  
We are the family that represents, in the City of Butrus, the senior line of the Tolaya lineage, within the Red Sky clan. There are Tolayas in other clans, too, but our bloodline is the most directly descended from the Prime Ancestor.  
   
**What makes us great?**  
We are heroic, famous, and noble beyond reckoning. The Tolayas have always recruited into the Legion of the Givers of Sorrow, which is the greatest and most glorious legion in the history of the world. Fortyscore years ago the Prime Ancestor commanded the remnants of Cohort V in the final defense of the Sunrise Keep and was awarded the Fierce and Loyal Tablet in the Second Degree by the victorious Mu’ugalavyani invaders, and in every generation since your ancestors have served with honor among the Givers of Sorrow. Your great-great-grandfather was favored by the ancestors, the gods, and Imperial Radiant Benevolence and was promoted to Captain, and served on the High General’s staff. Your blood-mother, like most of your other mothers, comes from the Parsang lineage of our Red Sky clan, and while her line is a junior one the lineage itself is great, and full of wealth and respect. We are also great because we are people of the city, because we are people devoted to the Flame, because we are people of the Chakas, and because we are people under the Seal Emperor.

**Where do we live?**  
Our home is in the Forty-Third Ward of the great City of Butrus, in the New House of the Red Sky clan, facing the Ebzal Avenue, in the north-central part of the city. We Tolayas own the central house and the second rear wing there, and are the masters of that clanhouse. You and I live, though, in the barracks of the Legion of the Givers of Sorrow, in my cohort’s courtyard and in my company’s longhouse, in the rooms we share with those of your mothers, aunts, sisters, brothers, and cousins who are part of my immediate household.

**How do we live?**  
By training, drilling, exercising, parading, campaigning, and fighting in the Legion of the Givers of Sorrow and honoring it always; by worshipping and sacrificing faithfully in the temple of Chedan and by revering the ancestors in our house-shrine; by loot and pillage of our lawful foes and by largesse of the Seal Emperor; by the glory of battle and the rigor of submission.

**What is important in my life?**  
You must strive to carry on our lineage’s tradition of martial service; never let it be forgotten that the Givers of Sorrow are the most worthy of respect among all mortal warriors. You must always act with diligence and obedience to those who command you, and with discipline and leadership over those who, in time and by grace of the ancestors, gods, and Emperor, you will command. You must remain faithful to our city and protect it from all harm. You must defend the Empire and its borders from invasion or dishonor. You must constantly seek out risk and danger in order to win glory and renown for legion, for temple, for lineage, for clan, for home, for the Empire. Never for a moment forget that you must always and unfailingly set an example to the world, from the moment of birth to the moment of death. Even when you think you are alone, the eyes of the ancestors are always upon you.

**Who rules us?**  
The Governor of Pan Chaka, Miko Kesun Tlaneng hiSayu, rules all of the Protectorate from the palace in the center of Butrus, and he is the operational commander of the Legion in time of war. In idle peace, his subordinate, the President of the Palace of War, oversees the various bodies of soldiery in Pan Chaka; naturally this man is also a veteran of our own great legion. More important, though, is our General \-- Korikada hiKurushma, commander of the Legion of the Givers of Sorrow, High Priest of Chedan at Butrus, and now, gloriously, Supreme General of the Northeast. Soon the Givers of Sorrow will march north under his command to spearhead our army against the insolent Yan Koryani. Of course, the Seal Emperor, Sixty-First of the Tlakotani dynasty, rules all righteous and true peoples from the Holy Mountain of Avanthar. Ultimately he is the true ruler of all the world.

**What makes a man great?**  
Courage in the face of suffering or doubt; self-control in the face of anger or joy; self-sacrifice in the cause of righteousness; dutifulness in the cause of tradition; bearing the burden of honor the ancestors and transmitting it to the descendants; sincerity in worship of the gods, spirits, and ancestors; upright and correct behavior befitting a soldier of the Petal Throne in all things.

**What is evil?**  
Cowardice is wicked, whether in battle or out of it. Deceit, deception, disguise, trickery, dishonesty, and dissembling is wicked. Treachery, treason, disobedience, and apostasy is wicked. Disrespecting one’s elders, one’s ancestors, one’s commanders, one’s priests: all these things are wicked. Loving the darkness is wicked; inaction is wicked; mercy to enemies or cruelty to friends is wicked. Acting out of confusion, behaving erratically, being slothful or indolent, expressing disinterest or boredom, lacking conviction or passion, all these things are wrong behavior and failings, though not evil. So is being unable to control one’s hot emotions, or not having them in the first place. To hurt or kill in cold blood is sinful. To burn or break things in cold blood is sinful. To eat fish and finny creatures of the waters is a sin. To put dirty things in fires is a sin; to light a fire improperly is a sin; to quench a fire is a sin, as is allowing a blessed fire to go out. To fail in sincere observance and execution of holy rituals is sinful.

**What is my lot in life?**  
You must study the Lower Doctrines and First Disciplines of our god, Chedan and be initiated. This autumn you must be dedicated to Living Flame, that is, the Universal Heart of Vomehla, the master of our god Chedan, wherein your side-locks will be shaved and burnt, so you will become an adult in the eyes of the Empire and the public world. The following summer you must perform the Litany of Blood-Song, Sword of the God, and only then will you be an adult in the eyes of your temple and the Legion.  
	Then, and only then, you may submit yourself to the recruiters at the Palace of Ever-Glorious War and seek acceptance by our Legion. (If you should fail, you are not permitted to commit suicide, but must find some other course of life to serve the ancestors and the living lineage of Tolaya – however demeaning it may be for one of us to sink to the level of priesthood, or temple guards, or... nay, enough\!) Then you must master the drills and exercises of the Givers of Sorrow, its songs and dances and secret stories, train with our sword and spear in the ancient and approved techniques of fighting, learn the names and places of every man and woman in the Legion, and serve it faithfully for all your days, in peace and war.  
	Once you have earned a place in the life of the world, then you shall marry, both to kindle the next generation of the lineage and to maintain our ancient ties with the other lineages of our clan. You need not worry about this, as I and your other lineage-elders have already found a suitable bride for you – your cousin Thunu, from the Haspuji lineage, in the Old House of the Red Sky clan in the eastern part of the city; you’ve been engaged to her since you were six years old.  
	By your unceasing efforts and the favor of the ancestors, the gods, and the Emperor (as manifested in the officers of the Legion and of the Palace of Ever-Glorious War), you will be promoted to ranks of command; by those same favors you will fight in battles and hopefully in wars, slaying enemies, taking prisoners for sacrifice and ransom, performing sacrifices at the legion standards and the temple fire-pits, burning the enemy homes and looting their riches.  
	When you retire from the ranks you have not left the Legion, but will serve it in training the young, teaching the children, administering the properties and overseeing the goods and wealth of the legion for the rest of your days. When you die, your children and children’s children will elevate your mortal body into the sacred fire in the temple, and your soul will be taken up by Chedan into the blessed halls.

**What is the difference between men and women?**  
Men are liquid, like blood and fire; women are solid, like bone and fuel. Men expand and occupy the outside world, women condense and fill the indoor world. Men serve the ancestors and the gods; women serve the gods alone. Men are the links in the lineage, but women are the joints that bind them. Men are for careers, women are for families. Women can suppress and hide their emotions better than men, but this is no credit to them – their emotions are cold and weak to begin with.

**How do we deal with others?**  
Our families, with loving protectiveness. Our friends and comrades, with vigorous loyalty. Our commanders and leaders, with zealous devotion. Our priests and holy teachers, with fiery awe. Our enemies, with savage violence; when vanquished, with hate and scorn. The others, the common people, outsiders, civilians, nonbelievers, with indifference.

**Who are our enemies?**  
The Mu’ugalavyani, the Red Hats, stolid and faceless, our foes beyond the western jungles since time immemorial, invaders of our Empire and occupiers of our Chakan lands, looters of our great city, disobedient rebels against the Seal Emperor, without kings of their own, devotees of the Flame like ourselves but ruled by priests of a false god. The Legion of the Tangled Root Eaters are our enemies, for they defame us and lyingly claim the greater glory in our re-conquest of Pan Chaka from the Red Hats five-and-twentyscore years ago; they worship the Dark Gods and are not human people, but Bigeyes, Fourlegs, tree-climbing aliens from the distant southern mountains. Because their city is foul and inferior yet arrogant and boastful, the Urmishites are our foes. The Yan Koryani, bowlegged half-savages and fish-eaters of the clammy lands to the north of the Empire, are our enemies, because in their ignorant rebelliousness they have attacked the lands of the Petal Throne and must be chastised.

**Who are our gods?**  
Above all others we venerate Chedan, the Lord of Red Spouting Flame, the Drinker of Blood and Reaper of Cities, the First Lieutenant of Vomehla the Lord of Fire. Chedan is the god of the Legion of the Givers of Sorrow and lives within it; and he is also the patron and protector of our city of Butrus. We soldiers of the Legion and our families worship Chedan, as do some lower grade of citizens, such as the firemen, the torturers, and the executioners. Many others in our city and throughout the world are devoted to the worship of Most Mighty Vomehla, however, and we are in fact within this greater and most glorious faith. Vomehla, the All-Consuming, Lord of Fire, is manifest in many godhoods, and we of the Legion revere him as Pa’lakh the Swath of Red, Dumuggash the Spirit of Battle, Dikkomtla the Blazing Trident, and Valedh the Flayer. We do not worship Kerkan, the young and petty god of valor and soldiery, though many elsewhere in the empire do. He is only a God of Light, while Vomehla is the God of Fire.

**What is there to do around here?**

---

Incomplete. Maybe there *isn't* anything to do around there. I've got sketches for like a dozen of these damn things but no vim.