[https://web.archive.org/web/20161225113125/http://home.earthlink.net/\~panchakahq/culture\_test.html](https://web.archive.org/web/20161225113125/http://home.earthlink.net/~panchakahq/culture_test.html)

# The Butrús Culture Test

   
   
This is based on [Mark Rosenfelder’s “culture tests”](https://web.archive.org/web/20161225113125/http://www.zompist.com/amercult.html) – originally a way of demonstrating that what Americans take as “natural” is cultural, but since picked up by many others and adapted for well over a dozen other countries and several fictional worlds or nations. Rosenfelder’s own “[How to Tell if You’re Verdurian](https://web.archive.org/web/20161225113125/http://www.zompist.com/vercult.html)” is one of the latter, and the immediate model for this.

The Butrussene culture test assumes the protagonist is a “middle-class” member of society: not one of the nobles or gentlefolk, or wealthy merchant families, nor one of the unskilled laborers and dregs of society. It’s more geared towards the “canonical” Tekumel setting than the rest of the materials on this website, though it’s still unofficial and Barker-unapproved.

# ---

**Best City in the World**

* You will probably never travel more than a few *tsan* (1 *tsan \=* 1-1/3 kilometers) from the neighborhood you were born in. And because Butrus is such a magnificently huge city, this means you rarely go outside the city. You know people who’ve never been beyond the walls, in fact. Poor people and slaves often have to move around more, and so do the rich.  
* Nobles and landowners have country estates which they visit or live in for part of the year, but if you travel at all you’re more likely to be familiar with major towns or even cities (like Tumissa, Katalal, or Urmish) than you are to know the Pan Chakan countryside very well. (City people belong in cities, country people belong in the country.)  
* If you’re devout you’ll probably to go on a pilgrimage to some holy shrine elsewhere in Pan Chaka during your life, possibly even beyond (if you’re rich, or very religious). If you become an official or a soldier you’re almost certain to leave the city for long periods of time, or even permanently. If you become a priest that’s also fairly likely.  
* You’re proud of the cleanliness of Butrus. You’ve heard that other cities are much filthier and that there, nightsoil has to be hauled away in carts on the street, or is simply dumped in alleys. There’s a system of sewers and tunnels all under *your* city, though, which your clan-house’s lavatories empty into; some of it washes out into the river, some of it is collected out of the tunnels by a special clan of unthinkably untouchable wretches and sold as fertilizer to neighboring farmers and gardeners. Even in late summer, when it’s hot and windless and there hasn’t been much rain to wash the dirt and dust down, the city hardly stinks at all, really.  
* Streets are wide enough for dozens of people to walk abreast. Lanes or alleys are usually still wide enough for two palanquins to pass each other. Within the bigger clanhouse compounds there are smaller alleys and passages that can cause congestion, though. You’re proud that Butrus has such grand thoroughfares; other cities, you note, have tight, crooked, badly-paved, ill-drained, narrow little roads.  
* The city has a body of City Police (*sanleshyal*) that helps keep order. They watch for burglars and pickpockets, break up brawls and fights, help find lost children or slaves, that kind of thing. They patrol the streets and keep the curfew after dark, to make sure everyone stays in their proper wards and neighborhoods. In the marketplaces there are also Market Police who do much the same, and across the river there are the Tomb Police, who guard the city of the dead (and the living who come to visit there). Temples have their own guardsmen too, of course (*katanleshyal*), and so does the Governor. There’s a lot of actual soldiers barracked in Butrus too, but right now most of them have been marched up north to fight the uncouth Yan Koryani. There are also troops of soldiers specially formed to police the raised highways between major cities of the Empire, but you don’t see much of them unless you’ve been traveling.  
* In any case, there are definitely parts of the city you would think twice about going into even during the daytime, and that you definitely wouldn’t want to get stuck in when the curfew falls (just after dark). The Foreigners' Quarter is especially dangerous, but the slummy area around there isn’t very nice either  even if you live there. There’s also a whole lot of the city that isn’t inhabited and hasn’t been built up – it’s just empty lots, or meadows, or even groves and scrubby woodlands. (Though most of this land is actually gardens, orchards, or little fields, actually.) There’s all kinds of reasons to avoid these areas at night, too – bandits, ghosts, feral dogs, mad killers, smugglers, bloodthirsty monster-beasts, spies, depraved cultists, etc.

# Kaitars and Qirgals

* At the market and in shops, you pay for things with coins almost all the time. Sometimes, if you buy or sell something to someone from way out in the countryside they’ll want to use “biscuits” (silver ingots) or seashells instead, or even bolts of cloth, but that’s fairly rare and you don’t need to accept them. You also know you’re not supposed to accept Mu’ugalavyani coins, only Tsolyani ones, but everyone does it anyway. A Mu’ugalavyani copper coin (a *qura*) is worth six Tsolyani ones (a *qirgal*).  
* However, a lot of goods and services are exchanged on a barter system, between families or between different clans. How this is all accounted for is a complicated and delicate business – that's basically what your clan-elders spend their days working out.  
* If you’ve had a chance to compare notes with someone from another town or city, you get the impression that prices are awfully high for some commodities in Butrus – especially food. At least land itself is cheap in Butrus; whether you rent or buy your housing, it’s probably no more expensive than something comparable in a smaller Pan Chakan town, and your friends from other cities in the Empire are amazed at how cheap it is to buy property in the city.  
* You know that a lot of goods imported into Pan Chaka are unreasonably expensive because of the tarrifs; that’s what smugglers are for, you suppose.  You’ve certainly bought smuggled goods at least once in your life, and probably consume or use them without knowing it all the time.

# Home Sweet Home

* The comforts of home require a lot of labor. Water has to be hauled by hand from underground cisterns (during the dry season at least, and possibly year round); clothes have to be washed by hand, food has to be bought and made fresh every day, rooms and yards have to be swept and washed by hand, wood for cooking and water-heating must be hauled and stacked... (At least Pan Chaka is warm even in the winter, and there’s not much need for firewood or charcoal to heat your house.)  
* Fortunately, you almost certainly live in a big clanhouse shared with several extended families. There’s going to be at least one main building and one courtyard, and likely several of each. (Land being cheap in the city, even fairly poor people can afford decent housing.) So scale efficiencies in a household this size help. Younger children, disabled people, and the elderly all help out around the house even when they can’t work productively.  
* If you’re at all well-off you’ll have servants, lower-class people from humble clans, who are paid to do chores and labor around your house; you may even own a slave or two, privately. Your family or clanhouse probably owns a fair number of slaves too, as corporate property.  
* The biggest meal of the day is dinner, which you eat a little after sunset.  
* Meals involve killing animals, chopping them up, getting fresh fruit and vegetables and chopping them up, cooking it all, serving it, and then washing up.  
* You don’t consider cats, dogs, frogs or newts, or most flying birds to be food. You also don’t eat cheese or unclarified butter (or yogurt, unless it’s cooked with something); milk, buttermilk, and fresh curds are all right though. Flightless birds are practically a staple of the diet; so are eggs – both birds' eggs and also reptile eggs, amphibian eggs, insect eggs and larva, and fish eggs. About the only type of fish you're likely to eat is a type of carp, full of bones and usually muddy-tasting.  
* You buy food in the marketplace, and most of it fresh every day. If your clan owns farmland nearby, some produce gets sent to your clanhouse in the city in exchange for your products. Also, because there’s so much free space in Butrus, you have plenty of room for a big kitchen garden, and a lot of fruit, vegetables, and seasonings come right from your own home. In fact, it’s entirely possible that people from your family and clan-house have a separate truck-garden somewhere else in the city, where even more fresh food is grown  – you may have to go there sometimes to work on it, or buy slaves or hire poor people to do it for you. Still, there’s a lot of food that has to be bought for cash, and that’s expensive. This includes the real staples, like grain, salt, and cooking oil.  
* You eat most meals at home, in your clanhouse. The exceptions are holidays or ceremonial days, when it seems like half the city eats together in the Plaza or in temple grounds, and at fêtes, when your entire neighborhood (and people from further off) may turn out and enjoy a common feast in the courtyards and neighboring streets of the nobleman or merchant who’s sponsoring it for whatever personal occasion. If you work in one of the “professions” – the armies, the temples, or in government – you’re likely to take at least one or two daily meals in a cafeteria or refectory at work together with your coworkers. This is a lot like eating at home, except that the cooking and cleaning is entirely done by servants or slaves.  
* If you have money and want to live it up you may go with family members or friends to a private establishment that specializes in cooking. Usually these are run by members of the clans that manufacture and trade in wine and liquor, not by the people who run hostels for travelers. You may also pay these people to cook special dishes for you and deliver them to you to eat, though this is usually too expensive. There’s also “fast food” available from vendors in the markets and the bazaar (and the temples, the arena, outside government offices, etc.), but these are just snacks to you, and would never constitute a meal. You're also suspicious of their standards of quality and hygiene; everyone has "their" vendors they go to and others they would never dream of buying snacks from.  
* You like to bathe every day, if at all possible; at least by pouring a bucket or two of water over yourself and scrubbing dry. Your clanhouse has a separate bathhouse, which may even have pools to soak in if it’s better-off. You certainly don’t get in these pools to get clean, though; you clean yourself with soap, brushes, scrapers, and buckets of water outside first. The toilets are nowhere nearby, of course – that would be disgusting\! A bathroom is for bathing. Country people are dirty and smelly. So are outsiders from some other cities, for that matter.

# The Daily Grind

* If you go to work for someone outside your own family (even if it’s within your own clan), they’re like a master. You expect them to protect and take care of you, treat you appropriately, not dismiss you from service casually or suddenly, and not abandon or shame you.  
* You're probably a small-scale craftsman or artisan, or a laborer (skilled or semi-skilled). You may also be a shopkeeper or trader, selling goods that family or clan-members make, or goods that you buy from outsiders to sell in the market. You might also be a clerk or scribe, or have some other specialized skill that people pay you for.  
* You work hard, every day of the week. There’s some kind of holiday or festival practically every week in Butrus, but of course you don’t observe them all – some are for only certain religious communities, others only for officials, or the aristocracy, or for certain clans or occupations. Even the holidays you do get are hardly free time: you’re *obliged* to participate.  More relaxing, perhaps, are fêtes thrown by local aristocrats or rich merchants to celebrate weddings and funerals and so forth. These are like great street parties, with free food, drink, and entertainment for anyone who comes by. You probably get to go to at least one of these a year.  
* To get around you use your feet. You walk everywhere, whether it’s across the city or across Pan Chaka. Technically you could hitch a ride on one of the carts hauled by the giant chlen-beasts, but they’re really slow, and anyway you’d be pretty embarrassed to be seen riding in a wagon like some kind of *object*. If you’re rich you’d ride in a palanquin carried by porters – the really wealthy are carried around everywhere when they go outdoors, even when it’s just across their own courtyard\!  
* If you have to travel a long ways, you’d probably see if you can do it by boat. If you’re heading south or east into Tsolyanu, there’s a lot of busy canals and rivers, and they’re just as safe and probably faster than taking the big raised *sakbe* “highways” – they're just not as prestigious.  
* If you have to communicate with someone far away – like in a town or village, or in some countryside estate, or even another city in Tsolyanu – you need to find someone else going there and entrust them with a letter or verbal message. Your best bet is a fellow clan-member, or failing that, try at one of the merchant-trading establishments and see if they have anyone headed that direction. (If you yourself can’t read and write, someone else in your clan-house probably can; and if not, a priest at your temple can certainly do so, for a small fee. You could also pay a professional letter-writer to do it for you, but you’re wary of those people, and it would be embarrassing to use them if you have other options.)  Officials have their own courier system, of course, but that’s only for government business. They say that the wizards in the temples can use magic to speak to each other in different cities, but you’ve never seen it yourself.

# Who’s What and What’s Who?

* The single most important thing to know about a person is probably what clan he belongs to.  
* Every human being you know has black hair and dark skin – coppery-red, in most cases. Easterners, people who come from outside the Chakas, are more brown or yellow-tinged; they also have skinnier faces and are ganglier-limbed; maybe a bit taller, too. They often have darker eyes – most people have dark brown ones, but here in the Chakas you see other colors: gray in some families from Do Chaka way up north, and hazel or greenish ones among folks here in Pan Chaka. Blue eyes are a curse from Lady Avanthe, though, and if you’ve never seen them you hope you never will. You’d throw rocks at someone who looked at you with blue eyes\!  
* Nobles are best avoided, though it’s good to watch them from a distance if you can. The spectacle is usually worth it. Attracting their attention rarely is.  
* Rich people are a lot like nobles, whether they’re landowners or merchants or whatever. They’re probably even riskier to get the attention of, since they’re a lot less scrupulous and tightly bound by obligations of dignity and honor and duty.  
* Slaves don’t belong to a clan and have lost their lineage; they do have families, though (of a sort) if their owners permit it.  
* If you’re cast out of your clan you’re what's called *nakome*, and are probably going to end up being enslaved by someone if you survive at all – no one is going to stick up for you, really. Becoming *nakome* is about the worst thing you can imagine happening – not just because of being cast out of your clan and the suffering and shame you’ll suffer forever afterwards, but because you’re cut off from your lineage and your ancestors will turn away from you. You’re hardly a person at all any more, after that. The Gods avoid thinking of you.  
* There are jokes about all sorts of people, but the best are the ones about people from Chelyumai down the river. Those folks are so stupid it’s hilarious. Must be from drinking our sewage all their lives\!  Jokes at the expense of people from Urmish are also good – anything to take those rotten pompous louts down a notch or two is okay by you.  
* Humans are only one kind of person, though certainly the most important. Right here in Butrus there live thousands of the Pachi Lei, and way down south, up in the volcanic mountains and cloud forests towards the coast, there’s zillions more, living half-wild. They’re all right, but definitely strange. There’s also Pe Choi, who mostly live way up north in the forests of Do Chaka, but there’s an entire legion of Pe Choi soldiers based in the city, too, besides a fair number of civilians who live here. There’s some of the flying people with three eyes, the Hlaka, who came from the half-mythical mountains on the other side of the Empire and have lived in the city for hundreds of years now. Other kinds of alien people are mostly the stuff of legends, though you may have seen some of them (at least if you’ve ever gone into the Foreigner’s Quarter).  
* There’s also dead people, of course. Your ancestors are the most important of them, because their shadows still exist in the underworld even after their souls have gone off to the Islands of Teretane and have forgotten their lives. The ancestors’ shades can help you and your family if you get sick, or unlucky, or possessed by evil spirits, or just in general if you need help of some kind. Dead people you’re not related to should be given a very wide berth, however.  
* You consider the Pachi Lei to be earnest, sincere people who are nonetheless hard to figure out. You probably don’t try. They can act pretty weird even at the best of times. Sometimes they go into berzerk rages with no warning and may injure or kill people around them, and not even remember it when they come out of the fit. And you’d rather not think about how they reproduce. Still, it’s possible that some of them are members of your clan and have their own families and lineages within it – possibly they even live in the same clanhouse as you.  
* Pe Choi are kind of effete and supercilious; you don’t much trust them either, since the old stories and histories sure seem to mention them helping the bad guys invade Pan Chaka a lot. Plus the Pe Choi soldiers in the city are religious fanatics of some kind – and not your kind, or anyone's kind you know, that’s for sure. They look like giant mantises, with seahorse heads, and the males are all black while the females are all white. Well, at least they have sexes, unlike the Pachi Lei.  
* The Hlaka are fun to watch flying around up in the sky, but they’re excitable and noisy, like hysterical children. You’d rather not have to deal with them personally, all things being equal. Too silly and chattery.  
* Tumissans are proud and ponderous and given to florid mannerisms, and think they have some special right or role in the Chakas. You really hate it when you hear outsiders say that Tumissans are Chakans. They’re Tsolyani, and practically easterners\! Still, it seems like all the good art and music and songs and plays and jokes and news comes from there. They’re classy, you have to admit. If you’re going to leave Butrus looking for culture, Tumissa is probably your destination.  
* Do Chakans are a mixed bag, but when you get down to it they’re your kind of people. They likely worship different gods than you, and there’s a couple smaller cities up there instead of one big one like Butrus. They fight with each other all the time too (at least, more than Pan Chakans do, these days). Still, they’re Chakans like you – compared to folks from anywhere else, they look like you, talk like you, dress like you, and eat like you; and you’d trust them over an outsider any day.  
*  Urmish is a big city down to the southeast of Pan Chaka, in the flat lowlands of Tsolyanu; it’s an absolute pit, old, filthy, worn-out, decayed, and its people are a sorry lot. Just because back before the empire got started they conquered Butrus for a while, and because they’re one of the most ancient cities in the world, they think they’re better, or something. You don’t have much respect for them, and they don’t for you. You wouldn't have it any other way.  
* People from central Tsolyanu are usually arrogant and naive, in your opinion. They don’t seem to know anything about Butrus or the Chakas\! Their food is peculiar and often unpleasant, and they sometimes look a little strange. But, like the Tumissans, they have great style, especially with clothes and jewelry and stuff, and are better at poetry and literature than people in the Chakas, you have to admit.  
* Mu’ugalavya is the country west across the Chakan forests; it’s a separate empire of its own. You call the Mu'ugalavyani the “Red Hats” because their soldiers’ helmets are all red, and so are their officials’ caps. And they have a *lot* of officials (but no emperor, just a council). You think of them as being patient people, probably because of the unreasonable amount of protocol and paperwork they seem to need for everything. Quite a lot of them come through Butrus as merchants or as pilgrims: most Mu’ugalavyani worship Vimuhla, the Lord of Fire. Their language sounds a lot like Tsolyani but more sonorous and sibilant. They look more like you than the Tsolyani do, too, in their faces and bodies. Even though they keep invading the Chakas (and sometimes ruling it for a while) you don’t have anything against them, as people. (You might not even care whether it’s Mu’ugalavya or Tsolyanu that’s the overlord of Pan Chaka, but you know saying so will get you executed, if you’re not very careful. Frankly, you don’t think being ruled by them was so bad – they built a lot of important and useful things, fixed the city up right, and put together a better system of administration and government than other parts of Tsolyanu have. Again, saying so in the wrong circles will get you and your family executed.)

# What To Do in Butrus If You’re Bored

* You like music and go to listen to it when you can, whether it’s family or neighbors playing on the porch in the evening, or street musicians or wandering performers putting on a show someplace. Whether you can play music yourself depends on a number of things. If you’re a woman and come from a moderately well-off family you may have been given lessons in one of the “demi-*tenturens*”, big flat stringed instruments like a Japanese koto. If you’re poor and male, you might know how to play the paired lute-like *muikkil* and *munkaga* and the songs that go with them. If that's the case, then this is a source of pride to you, since it’s only decent laboring worker-types like you that can play them. Besides that, you certainly know a lot of songs and can sing tolerably well, and may know how to play a flute, whistle, or recorder, but that’s about it.  
* You don’t dance; you’re not a peasant or a whore, thank you very much\!  Well, you probably have been part of some ceremonial dances for your clan, or neighborhood, or temple, but that’s *totally* different.  
* Poetry is very important; if you can’t put things in verse, and the right kind of verse, it’s hard to speak publicly. If you want to be an orator you have to versify. You probably know how to construct some basic types of couplet if you’ve been to school at all, or how to imitate them if you haven’t; in any case you’ve probably memorized a lot of poetry by rote. Real poetry is terribly complex and above your head. You respect anyone who can compose it.  
* Wine is expensive, and a lot of it is imported. It’s mostly wealthy people who drink it, or regular people on special occasions. Normally people who want an alcoholic beverage have to settle for heavy beer made from *dna*, or lighter, non-bubbly rice beer. People out in the countryside drink all kinds of bizarre concoctions, but you probably have never tried any. There’s distilled alcohols too, the most important of which is the brandy made from the *mash* fruit, famous all across the world. You’re willing to defend the superiority of this liquor over all foreign contenders, with your fists if necessary.  
* You’re familiar with some holy texts of your religion, as well as a wide range of mythology from the epics. You like stories about Hrugga, Subadim, Nug, Archer Hmi, and so forth. You’ve likely seen ritual performances of the epics on stage, possibly at the Temple of Wuru. You’ve certainly heard versions of the same stories told by storytellers and puppeteers, too; these have lower production values but are easier to understand – they’re in Tsolyani, for starters.  
* You also have been to the *hirilakte*, the great public arena and theater, and not just to see the gladiators. On the less violent and more athletic side of things, you’re very likely a fan of one or more *marotlan* teams and go see their games in the *hirilakte*; you’ve certainly been to at least one in your life. If you follow the sport you could back any team, even if it’s not from your own clan or neighborhood – it’s only certain that you’ll hate the teams that occasionally visit from the city of Urmish. You may have joined in the mob violence after a game against those dirty cheats and/or sore losers, too.  
* You’re less likely to actually play any sports yourself than someone who lives in the countryside or a small town, at least after you reach adulthood. Still, as a child, you probably played *marotlan* yourself with other kids in your clan-house and neighborhood  even if you're a girl. Out in the countryside, you know, peasants play some inferior version with a stuffed leather ball instead of a scepter. Racing is another sport you probably stopped once you grew up.  
* On the other hand, you certainly know a lot of games, and spend lots of time playing them – simple dice games, checkers, and so forth. The high-class game with sticks (*tsahlten)* you can’t figure out, it’s complicated and sort of boring. Only rich people play it (though oddly peasants way out in the boondocks do too – either way, it’s not something you’re interested in.)

Gods, Aspects, and Ancestors, Oh My\!

* You think the world has always been the way it is, and no one can change that. The gods could, maybe; but you can’t imagine them doing so. You know there were times long ago when things were different, and there were gods and demons and heroes walking the land, but you tend to think of this as outside the real world. Look around you, none of that stuff is happening now, is it?  
* You believe there are twenty deities (ten major ones, called Gods, and ten minor ones attached to them, called Consorts), and that they’re all real and necessary. You assume that the individual temples and cults for each one must all be necessary too, though obviously some are more important than others. Some of them are very strange and you wouldn’t want to have anything to do with them yourself, but you generally acknowledge that they have some purpose and value in the bigger scheme of things – that’s just outside your understanding.  
* There are also some weird cultists around that some people say aren’t devoted to real gods; and then there’s always stories about the forbidden cults of the evil, evil Pariah Gods, intent on destroying the world, the Gods, and the entire universe. These people are scary (if they exist) and the fact that the full weight of the Empire and the orthodox temples will come down on them if they’re found is only partially reassuring. What if they’re there, but no one knows it?  
* If you’re very well educated or have traveled far, you may have encountered the idea that people from other cities or lands in the Empire think *your* religious beliefs are heterodox. Obviously there’s some misunderstanding there.  
* Gods and Consorts come in two kinds, and theologians and politicians and high-and-mighty types make a big deal out of it. One group is supposed to stand for “stability” and the other for “change”, but you’re not sure what that’s really supposed to mean, even if you went to a temple school and someone tried to teach you. Anyway, there’s five Gods and five Consorts in each group, for whatever it’s worth.  
* You believe in your God or Goddess, His or Her Consort, and all their Greater and Lesser Aspects, Emanations, Hypostases, Avatars, and so forth. You also believe in all the other Gods and Goddesses and Consorts, etc. (and probably perform rituals or pray to them from time to time, too, for special purposes or at certain festivals). Everyone does, though you know that some very backwards people – as well as aliens like the Pachi Lei – may not have a very clear sense of devotion to any particular God. They certainly still believe they *exist*, though.  
* Some of these deities are not very important, and you can’t see why people (mostly in far-off places) worship them so much. Each has its own temple complexes in the city, but some of them – like Hnalla, the Master of Light, or Thumis, the Lord of Wisdom  seem to be mostly for immigrants or other “newcomer” families – not real native Chakans. Well, Hrü’ü, the Supreme Principle, is also pretty obscure and doesn’t have many priests or worshippers, but is certainly a good old Chakan deity... so it can be complicated.  
* The biggest holidays are at the New Year: there are the Five Intercalary Days when the world goes outside the calendar and time stops in the city (ritually speaking, that is), followed by ten days of festivities. The celebrations and drinking get pretty wild and don’t let up, and by the end of it your liver and your feet are aching. Or they ought to be.  
* The Governor conducts rituals pertaining to any and all of the gods, and that’s only natural. As a *person* you know he worships Vimuhla, like most members of his clan. But that’s not relevant, ceremonially speaking. (You probably don’t know what the Emperor’s personal deity even is.) You would feel very unsafe and worried if you had a ruler who stopped performing ceremonies to all the gods and only followed his own deity.  
*  Chiteng is only a Consort but is also the god of Butrus, as a city; he protects it from invaders, fires, earthquakes, storms, floods, famines, and anything else. Sometimes not that well, but it’s better than the alternatives. He’s also the god of the Legion of the Givers of Sorrow, the most ancient, honorable, and mighty warriors in the Empire, which is based right here in Butrus.  
* Vimuhla, the God of Fire, is Chiteng’s Master, and a lot of people worship Him directly. The quartet of great noble clans that seem to pretty much run Pan Chaka – “the Four Reds” – are all mostly worshippers of Him. They have a lot of noisy but impressive ceremonies, sacrifice a lot of animals and humans on their altars and burn them in the fire-pits, and also give out more alms to the poor than anyone else in the city.  
* Ksarul, the Prince of the Blue Room, is also important, and is perhaps the deity you’re most likely to worship if you’re an average Butrussene. If you’ve attended a proper school in Butrus, odds are it’s the one run by His sect, regardless of your own religious beliefs. The temple grounds in Butrus are huge, like a big parkland or forest filled with little shrines and buildings and lanes winding through the trees. His priests wear smiling silver masks and his priestesses black wooden smiling masks; all wear black robes with square headdresses. Most of the Pachi Lei in Butrus seem to worship Ksarul, as well. The priests of Ksarul know all kinds of secrets and hidden wisdom, and you imagine most of them are magicians and wizards, too. But they’re a pretty closed-mouth and secretive bunch.  
* Sarku, the Lord of the Dead, is also pretty important. He’s still the patron-deity of the Ito clan, who long ago ruled both the Chakas as free kingdoms. Sarku watches over the other city across the river, where people move when they die, and also takes care of their shadows in the underworld. Supposedly He and his priests can bring dead bodies back to life and the dead can go on living in this world forever that way, but you’ve never seen it. You’re not very likely to be a devotee of Sarku, but you certainly believe in Him and participate in His rituals and ceremonies.  
* Belkhanu also deals with the dead, but only their souls, which don’t stay in the world but go off outside it – either into the Islands of Teretane, or if you’ve attracted the personal notice of some divine entity, to a special heaven or hell. Belkhanu is more of a cosmological deity, you suppose, and it’s pretty hard to figure out what most of His religion is really all about. Still, it’s important to have His priests deal with your funeral rites, otherwise who knows what would happen to your soul? He, and even more His Consort (named Qon), are especially good for getting rid of demons and spirit-possessions.  
* Avanthe is also an important Goddess, but frankly one for the country people and peasants. She deals with fertility, and nature, and crops, and animals, and the seasons – which is important, of course, and vital – but you can’t help but think that sophisticated, urban people like yourself are better suited to other deities. Still, some of her Aspects are important in their own right, even to the city.

# Take Me to Your Leader

* The Emperor rules Tsolyanu from the Petal Throne in the mountain of Avanthar, and never comes out into the world again after he’s anointed. He’s thousands and thousands of *tsan* away, though.  
* The Governor is the person who really rules, as far as you can tell, and he’s here in Butrus. He’s almost always from Pan Chaka himself, but it’s not a hereditary position and you’re not so clear about how new Governors are chosen, or why, or when. His palace is right in the center of the city, along with the three bureaucracies that help run the country: the Palace of the Realm, the Palace of War, and the Palace of the Gods. (There’s also the Palace of Foreign Lands, but that’s down in the Foreigners’ Quarter and you’ve probably never seen it.) Sometimes it seems like the Governor and the Palaces don’t know what the others are doing; sometimes, even, that they’re at each others’ throats.  
*  You think this is a good arrangement: you need to have the officials and professional administrators to keep things running and protect the country and the people, but there has to be a ruler at the center to watch them and guide them, and of course to fulfill all the holy ceremonies and rites to please the gods and spirits. Odds are you prefer having a Governor appointed by the Emperor off in Avanthar to the other possibilities – a hereditary kingship sounds like a recipe for chaos and civil war, to you. The Four Red Clans would turn on each other in the blink of an eye if they thought someone could seize the throne, the Itos seem like a spent force (and the Tsolyani would never allow them to take charge again)  and you’d *never* want some outsider dynasty coming in and setting up court in Pan Chaka.  
* If you have a dispute with someone you can’t resolve by talking with them directly, you get your family to talk to their family. If that doesn’t work and they belong to a different clan, you get your clan-elders to talk to their clan-elders. If that still doesn’t work and you still need some kind of resolution you go to the courts. This will cost you a lot of money even if you “win”, and you run the risk of losing, too. You would avoid doing this if at all possible. Most disputes that require arbitration (whether between clans, informally, or through the courts) result in settlement by some kind of payment in kind or cash.  
* You know a bit about the Emperors of Tsolyanu, especially Metlunel II, Hejjeka IV, Nrainue, Gyesmu and Gyesmu Dalisa, but are pretty shaky about the rest. Before Pan Chaka joined the Empire you had your own kings and queens, of course, and you know a fair bit about them, but aren’t certain about what sequence they came in. Before them – and this was thousands of years ago, mind you  there was the great empire of Engsvan hla Ganga that lasted ten thousand years and was founded by Queen Nayari, who married the prophet Pavar on top of a hill of the skulls of all her previous suitors... or something like that. You know a few names of emperors and incidents from this period, but unless you’re very well educated you think of this as the age of mythology, not of history.  
* The country hasn’t been involved in a war for over three hundred years. Of course there have been hundreds and hundreds of ritual battles (*qadarni*) but that’s different from actual warfare (*qadardali*). There was a real incursion by the Red Hats a few years ago that everyone thought was the leading point of an invasion, but the great General Kettukal beat them silly at Chanis and that was the last anyone heard of it. There’s been fighting on and beyond the Empire’s other borders, too, of course, and some local boys (and even girls) have been lucky enough to be a part of it, if their legion happened to get send there. And a lot of them are up in Do Chaka right now, fighting the sneaky Yan Koryani. But Pan Chaka hasn’t been at war for centuries.  
* You’ve seen soldiers around you all your life; there are four great legions headquartered in the city, and they’re always having exercises on the walls and in their compounds, or marching around the streets and outside the city. Every so often one of them will fight a *qadarni*, a ritual battle with some other legion or with foreign soldiers. You probably don’t have much or anything to do with them. If you’re interested in military things, though, you might hang out at the armor workshops near the barracks to hobnob with soldiers. There’s no class difference between officers and troops, of course; it’s between the legions themselves that there’s a social hierarchy.  
* The Mu’ugalavyani have invaded Pan Chaka twice that you know of; a long time back they conquered it and ruled it for a few hundred years until the Tsolyani came back and kicked them out. More recently (well, at least three hundred years ago, you think) they invaded the entire Empire with a huge army and got as far as Bey Sü, the great metropolis at the center of Tsolyanu, before being driven back to their own country. There always seems to be rumors they’re getting ready to try again. Unless you’re a soldier (who’s obliged to fight them) or a Pachi Lei (whose species has a centuries-old blood feud with the Mu’ugalavyani state) you might well not much care whether they do or not, frankly; you can’t see how things – the *important* things – would change.  
* Right now, though, there is a war on, but up north: the half-barbarian city-states of Yan Kor have been pulled together by some traitorous Tsolyani mercenary general and incited to invade the Empire; namely, Do Chaka. This is mostly important to you because a) your local legions have been sent up north to fight them, and b) it’s one of the Chakas that’s been invaded, after all. Still, it’s been a long time since the Two Chakas were united, and it’s hard to really feel like the country’s at war.

# Say What?

* There are actually people out there who don’t speak Tsolyani. Obviously the Pachi Lei and the other alien people all have their own langauges (totally incomprehensible to human people; there’s just no point bothering) but they all learn Tsolyani too, at least the ones that live in Butrus. A lot of people know at least a little Mu’ugalavyani, and there’s quite a few families that originally came from there and still speak the language at home.  
* You can automatically tell Pan Chakans from outsiders by their accents, and can easily distinguish by accent which town or prefecture Pan Chakans are from. Even the peasants who live just outside the city speak differently from Butrussene, and you think you can tell what part of the city someone is from, too.  
* If you’ve traveled outside Pan Chaka (especially to a neighboring metropolis like Tumissa) or have much contact with outsiders, you’re well aware that most Tsolyani think that *you* speak a strange and rustic way.  
* You’ve seen Classical Tsolyani written in inscriptions and heard it spoken or chanted in ceremonial settings; if you’re well-educated or come from a particularly conservative family you studied it some in school. You’ve also certainly heard the language of ancient Engsvanyalu used in religious ceremonies; it’s completely incomprehensible, though some of the words sometimes sound familiar. It’s the language of antique learning, profound wisdom, and magical secrets. You assume that any ancient language is Engsvanyali unless you’re told otherwise.  
* You may have had some education, unless your family is poor and your clan is humble. If you’re a man you’re more likely to have at least learned arithmetic and how to write numbers (since you’ll have to know those things in business). You may have learned the alphabet from a tutor within your clan-house; if there’s more money, or a tradition of scholarship in your clan-house, you may have gone to a “family school” for a few years as a child to learn the rudiments of the “three Rs”. This kind of education is acquired entirely at home, of course.  
* Any professional skills you learn are acquired on the job, through a kind of informal apprenticeship with family members or relatives in the same clan – you certainly wouldn’t be apprenticed to someone *outside* the clan. The skills and techniques for the hereditary trades and crafts aren’t something outsiders should be allowed to know about\!  
* If you’re smart and your family is reasonably devout (or has more money) you’re likely to have been sent to one of the three temple schools. This is where real educations are acquired, and is the first step if you’re going to become a priest. It takes a long time though; someone going to one of these schools can be a full adult, even pushing twenty, before they graduate\!  
*  Dates are written like this: “12 Firasul, 2359 K.”  K. stands for *brukolumsa*, “in the mighty reign”, which is itself short for “in the powerful reign of the mighty 53rd Emperor” (currently). But actually the date gives how many years have passed since the foundation of the Empire and the First Emperor ascended into the Petal Throne. For practical, day-to-day life, though, you may not remember offhand what day of the month it is, and just go by the day of the week. Days of the month seem like a thing for bureaucrats, and priests, and merchant shippers, and people like that. (A week has six days, of course; there are twelve months. And a month has, er... thirty days. You think.)  
* If you deal with accounts, you have to be careful, since outsiders tend to write all their numbers backwards. This can be really confusing and cause a lot of trouble; you wish the rest of the Empire would just make the effort to write numbers the way they’ve always been done. Even the Mu’ugalavyani can manage that much, for crying out loud\!  
* How to address someone is very complex. There are six different pronouns for “you” just in normal conversation, and twenty or more you have to use in formal situations or when you’re being polite. There are probably pronouns you don’t even *know* – that’s another reason to avoid the great and powerful, you’ll just offend them if you end up having to say anything to them.  
* Which name to use for someone can be complicated, too. It’s easier for people outside the Chakas since they only have one name of their own, plus the name of the lineage they belong to. You’ve heard that some of them don’t even bother to change their name when they die, which is pretty bizarre and discomfiting.

   
**Can’t Have One Without The Other**

* Young people fool around sexually a lot and probably fall in love more than once, but this kind of playing around can’t be confused with (or allowed to interfere with) marriage, which is a very serious business that involves the entire family and lineage, and possibly the clan too. Marriages are the main way that alliances are made or strengthened with other families, after all. You’ll probably be told who you’re going to marry by your family, and it’ll be someone from your own clan, but a different lineage. It might be someone you already know or even grew up with, from your own clanhouse, or it could be someone you’ve never seen before, even from a town or village outside the city.  
* Marriage ceremonies are performed in clanhouses and don’t involve priests – they’re only religious in the sense that the ancestors are involved, but the gods certainly aren’t interested.  
* A man can marry as many wives as he wants, as long as he can support all of them and the children they’ll produce. You probably know some men with two wives, but not many; it’s only the really rich or aristocratic that have lots. If a woman becomes *aridani* she’s basically got legal rights like a man, and she can marry multiple husbands, too. But otherwise, if a wife sleeps with a man who’s not her husband, that’s adultery and they can both be punished severely.  
* Some people do marry for love and that’s wonderful and great (if it works for the families too). It’s a romantic ideal, is the thing; not a very practical one. You wouldn’t seriously expect to do it yourself, and would not be pleased if your children wanted to... especially not if you’ve already made arrangements with another family. People should marry the people that their families have found for them, and then the love grows out of *that*.  
* Some men have sex with other men, and that’s fine, you suppose, but what about their obligations? What if their brothers don’t produce sons to carry on the lineage, or what if they don’t even *have* brothers? It seems to you this risks angering the ancestors, if they notice what's going on. Besides that, if a man sleeps with both men and women it deranges his circulation and his “energy” (*pedhetl*) and that’s dangerous and unhealthy. Once you start sleeping with other men you’d better stick to it.  
* Women fall in love with other women all the time and mess around, especially when they’re girls, but there’s nothing wrong with that as long as they fulfill all their duties as wives and mothers. It’s not adultery, it’s not physically damaging to them, and the ancestors don’t care. If they want to *only* sleep with other women, then they’d better see if their families will let them become *aridani* so they don't have to fulfill their obligations as women.  (Most *aridani* you’ve met, though, sleep with men and are probably married to one, or more.) The priesthood of the Goddess Dilinala is pretty much just for that kind of woman – though it’s also a good place to shunt off an extra daughter you can’t afford to bring up properly or provide a dowry for.  
* It’s normal for a woman to show her breasts – there’s nothing sexual or erotic about *breasts*, for crying out loud. Rich women tend to cover up more, but that’s because they need to show off their money with rich clothing and jewels, that’s all. If you go outside your house you’d at least want to have your crotch and buttocks covered up and certainly wear something on your feet. Outsiders seem to think going barefoot is alright, but that seems slovenly, dirty, and shameful to you.  
* A man can cheat on his wife, unless her family or clan is more powerful than his and they object – in which case, he can be in trouble, and is then likely mocked and pitied by other men. Otherwise, though, as long as he and his wife can still get along tolerably, there’s nothing against him sleeping with prostitutes or courtesans, *aridani* women, or even other people’s wives – that’s a big coup, in fact, if he can get away with it. Even if he ends up having to pay compensation to the other husband, it’s still something to brag about having done. It’s only shameful for the unfaithful wife (and her husband\!).  
* When a couple dies, the normal thing is for their property to be divided up among their male children. Daughters should be taken care of by their husbands; or if they’re not married yet, by their brothers.  
* If a woman is plump, that’s good – it means she’s healthy and eating well. Still, you don’t think that noticeably bulky faces, necks, legs, or buttocks are attractive. You tend to think that people from the eastern part of the Empire, if you’ve seen many of them, are often pot-bellied and overweight. A good-looking Chakan woman (or man) has nice plump arms, legs, and buttocks.

# Death and Taxes

* If you get sick you turn to someone in your family or clanhouse who knows something about medicine – how to tell what kind of disease-spirits have moved into your body, where they’re hiding, and what you need to do to get them out. If it’s more serious you may call in a priest from your temple, or more likely a professional physician, if you can afford one. A priest may be able to use magic and charms to drive out the disease, or to treat injuries, but that’s really expensive and probably a last resort. Priests are what you need if you have an actual case of possession, though, and not just an indwelling sickness-spirit. The Gray-Robes, the priests in the temples of Thumis and Ketengku, claim to be great healers and doctors, but you don’t trust them. They have that so-called hospital up in the north end of town where the poor people go, or get... *taken*, and you hear they do things to them inside that are unspeakable, all in the name of “wisdom”.  
* Being sick is just part of living, though, and you assume that eventually one of the sickness-spirits will put you down for good. You consider people in their sixties to be very long-lived; you’re old when you reach your forties.  
* You have to pay taxes on your income. This means you have to keep a ledger or account-book, which a tax official inspects and then sends a tax collector around to collect the tax due on it. There’s also fees and tolls for renting market space, licenses for this and that, all kinds of extra government surcharges on things. You resent it but think it’s necessary at the same time. If you pay a lot of taxes, everyone will know you're rich, and they'll respect you. You also have to contribute money to your extended family and lineage to support the lineage, and also to your clan – after all, you live in a compound and house shared by everyone in the clan in Butrus.  In return, you expect the Empire to provide protection from looting, bandits, thieves, demons, droughts and famines, assistance resolving disputes, justice in court proceedings, proper performance of public rituals and festivals, and help in times of special need or distress.  
* If you deal with the government or the army, or even the temples or big mercantile concerns, you assume you’ll have to pay bribes, or “inducements” as people like to call them. You think that people from elsewhere in the Empire are terribly corrupt and venal, and don’t like the way you have to bribe them, or how they handle it. Mu’ugalavyani are ridiculous about pretending not to be grafty, which is just as irritating but less deplorable, you suppose. You tend to think that priests and temple administrators are actually greedier and more bribe-hungry than the government's representatives are.  
* If you find yourself in big trouble, you’d expect your extended family (members of the same lineage) to take care of you. If they can’t or don’t, you’d throw yourself on the mercy of your clan (your clan is probably represented all through Pan Chaka, possibly even elsewhere in the Empire, so it’s like having family anywhere you go.) If they don’t help you out, you have some major problems indeed. You’d probably commit suicide. If not, you’d probably run away and sink into the lowest tiers of society, among the utter scum; very likely you’ll end up a slave. You could also throw yourself on the mercy of your God’s temple, or on your network of friends and allies if you’re a member of the official class or the military, but this is humiliating and risky.


