Greetings from the Petal Throne

**by Professor M.A.R. Barker**

Tékumel was created in the 1940’s as a background for – hoped for – fantasy fiction. It came out as a game in 1975. A second edition (_Swords and Glory_) appeared but the third volume (the referee’s manual) was never completed. There have been further recensions and reworkings since. We are now working on yet a newer version, to be published by Theatre of the Mind Enterprises this year.

When I first dragged my dusty tomes on Tékumel out of my basement in 1974, I thought of them as little more than background material for a “dungeon” to entertain my friends in our small gaming group at the University of Minnesota. I had been dissatisfied with the background-less, society-less “dungeons” then being played: when one came up out of a “dungeon,” what did one do? Go to a bar, drink, and fight? Go to a “hotel” and sleep until the next “expedition?” Wander around the streets of the “town” where very few buildings had interiors or even shopkeepers? Go to a “temple” to be healed or to “pray” for useful magical benefits, sorcerous weapons, etc.? Go on an “outdoors adventure,” using a set of rules designed to appeal to backpackers? The choices were limited. Who ran this “town?” Where were the authorities, and what were their views, their laws, their problems? Who were the “gods” of the temples and churches? What were their theologies, their doctrines, their hierarchies? What sort of society did our adventurers inhabit? Why was the place overrun with critters out of Tolkien: Orcs, Trolls, Hobbits, Elves, Balrogs, Nazguls, and dragons? The format of the game offered interesting complexities, but little was in print. One of our first referees, who had played with Gary Gygax and had introduced the game to our group, brought in a government. Being a medieval history major, his ruler was a Duke, and the social structure was feudal. The “church” for good folks resembled Catholicism, while the “temples” for “evil” characters were simplistic borrowings from Robert Howard’s _Conan_ stories and the like. Admittedly, we had a great time.

Tékumel became a role-playing game shortly afterwards. My comrades played it, enjoyed it – and continued to build “Tolkienesque” worlds and “dungeons.” My world, many said, was “too alien,” “too hard to get into,” with names that were unpronounceable and societies that did not fit modern American tastes. A few stuck it out, learned the names, the social rules, the elaborate hierarchies of the priesthoods, and what amounted to almost a new world. Some stayed, some left, and a few are still with me, every Tuesday and Thursday night.

My first set of rules continued to be used for some years. We added journals, histories, army lists, three different sets of wargaming rules for miniature figures, a book of demonology, lots of articles, illustrations, lead figures – even a tape I made of temple rituals. Our characters’ lives became more and more complex with wives and children, government intrigues, temple politics, high-level plots, ideologies and philosophies, etc., etc. After a while I wrote two novels and saw them published – the realisation of the original goal for which Tékumel was created back in the 1940’s.

Other games were swiftly produced, some lasting and some ephemeral. Rule systems and preferences developed. Some liked complex rules with dozens of modifiers; others wanted simple systems that one could play right after opening the box. I followed fashion and produced a “complex” set. _Swords and Glory_ was the result. I still think it was a good set of rules, but it was sl-o-o-w. Fighting a combat between five player characters and their ten non-player comrades against ten Ssú took all evening. The _Sourcebook_ was useful, although some readers grumbled that it was written as pedantically as any textbook for Anthropology 100. (So? I am a professor. You want Mickey Spillane, you buy Mickey Spillane. I LIKE my florid writing style! If you don’t, please go buy _Reader’s Digest_.)

The “complex” game trend ran its course, and a great horde of “middling complex” games emerged. There are now “complexity ratings” for games to warn the unwary. I confess that I myself have always yearned for “simple” rules. The only subject I ever flunked in school was mathematics, and “hard” science eludes me completely. On the other hand, I can learn any language and read histories of the most esoteric civilisations easily. Not being a “number cruncher,” I should probably stay away from rules; yet I am drawn to the ideal of presenting a truly foreign world.

After awhile, I began using the simplest possible system with my own gaming groups. As my old friend, Dave Arneson, and I agreed, one simple die roll is all that one needs: failure or success. The players don’t really care, as long as the roll is honest. Who cares if I hit with the flat of my shield, with the edge of my shield, or whatever? The story’s the thing! A low score on a Dl00 roll denotes success; a high score signifies failure. A middling score results in no effect, or an event that is inconclusive. Thus, an 01 denotes the best possible result for the character, with perhaps more goodies than he/she bargained for: the foe goes down with one blow, the spell hits the exact target, the character easily swings up onto the mountain ledge. A 100 (i.e. 00), is a total, horrible flop, perhaps death or destruction: e.g. the opponent cuts our hero down, the poison works, the climber falls screaming off the cliff. A 45-65 = a natural result; the fight continues, the struggle to climb the peak goes on, and the like. A sliding scale from 01 to 100 gives all sorts of interesting ranges of success/failure.

As long as one trusts one’s referee and has a way of adding in skills and talents (i.e. some sort of simple modifiers to the Dl 00 roll), there is really no need for greater complexity. We played this system for several years, and one of my groups still uses it, more or less.

This does not satisfy the “number crunchers,” of course. My other gaming group was dissatisfied because they could not predict their chances of failure or success without codified, written rules. But wait, you cannot predict results in real life; why should you be able to do it in a game? When you come up against a hulking fellow who demands your money or your life, can you predict how strong he is, how skilled, or how dangerous? Ask the next mugger who grabs you to tell you his warrior skill level before you fight. This applies also to other skills: can you judge how well you can cook a dinner? Are you likely to succeed in making a shoe or belt? Some things we can indeed predict, knowing our real-life talents and training, but others are very hard to judge. How and why should we transfer this into a game? The answer is that players demand it.

But this is not the only problem with my simple D100 roll for everything. It is whimsical: one morning your roll 01 and slay a monster with a single roundhouse punch; the next day you score a 100 and die trying to smack a cockroach with a newspaper! Modifiers help, but this tends to lead right back to a complex rule system. What to do? Without consistency, results can be anything, and the players become annoyed and pout. If they work out a system that slays the referee’s beloved beasties too easily, then the referee pouts! Nobody is happy.

My “dissatisfied” group finally prevailed. I let them work out a “middle-complex” rule system. This is now nearly complete and will be offered to T.O.M.E. soon. It may still be too complicated for some and too simple for others, but, hey, a difference of opinion is what makes horse racing... I have also devised a series of solitaire adventures to help newcomers learn about Tékumel. I will continue adding to this as time goes on. A third novel is also in the works, although it has not been easy to finish, due to my retirement from the University, my physical problems, and the fact that some of my key critics hate the present version! 1 shall keep plugging away at it.

Tékumel itself has certainly grown more complex over the years. The original _Empire of the Petal Throne_ was about as realistic a simulation as “Monopoly” is of Atlantic City of the 1930’s. Coverage was expanded in the Sourcebook to include more about other nations, peoples, cultures, etc., but this is still only about 3/7ths of the northern hemisphere. I had expected players to have traveled round to the other side of the globe by now and discovered some of the wonders there. But aside from occasional visits by tubeway car or nexus point, nobody has yet explored the back of the planet. I have some of this material worked out, while other regions remain to be filled in by those who want Tékumel, but who want to insert their own cultures and developments. If these do not disagree too strongly with what I have set out, these can even be included in “official” Tékumel productions to come. Most of my players have become too involved in local Tsolyáni politics and intrigues, however, to be interested in wandering off to more risky climes. The politics of the Five Empires grow increasingly muddied and gripping; the nonhumans plot; the princes machinate; and the ancient social order teeters and totters. Tsolyánu itself is about all most of my players really want – or can handle.

What do I see for the future? For gaming, as a whole, the plethora of new games with new backgrounds seems hopeful. Games for younger players proliferate, and new systems constantly appear: some use more dice, some are diceless, some have more or different character classes, some offer negative character traits that have to be played; some are old-hat; and some are just bizarre. It’s all part of the fun. I feel I still have a small part to play, a book or two as yet unwritten, and a lot of gaming to enjoy. I hope to finish some of these projects, at least, before I shuffle off to the Isles of Teretané. Let me at it!

Rôle-playing is harmless, at least as compared to real life adventure as a mercenary in Angola. It doesn’t cost as much as liquor, sports cars, fancy photography, and dates with willing parties of the opposite sex. It doesn’t annoy one’s spouse as much as barhopping, a mistress, or addiction to strange substances. It is **fun**. This is what keeps my optimism going; rôle-playing is fun. Tékumel, to me, is still a world of mysteries, riddles, beauty, and alienness. I love it. Whatever games you play, I hope you love them as much.

Enjoy!

M.A.R. Barker

December 5, 1993

Copyright © 1993 by M.A.R. Barker

Scanned in from the RuneQuest-Con 1 booklet

(Baltimore, Maryland, USA:14-16 January 1994)