Report on the Southern Islands:

Including Geography, History, Culture and Politics
Of  the Isles of Vra, Thayuri, Ganga, Lilsu, Burru and Dlanta

Geography and Economics 

Climate:   

“The Deeps of Chanayaga produce a similar coastal climate for southern 
Tsolyanu and Salarvya.  At Jakalla, the average mean temperature ranges 
from 26 degrees to 40 degrees C, with very hot summer days attaining 51 
degrees C.”

“Just north of the equator at 5-7 degrees north latitude (i.e. south of 
the terrain maps which extend from 12 degrees to 48 degrees N), a belt 
of trade winds blows at moderate speeds from the northeast.  South of 
the equator another belt is encountered blowing in the opposite 
direction.  The terrible equatorial heat (over 60 degrees C in some 
months) makes these winds accessible only to the ships of the Shen, 
however, and it is this heat which has made contact between the 
northern and southern hemisphere so difficult over the centuries.”

“Seasonal shifts in pressure belts create monsoons throughout southern 
Tsolyanu and all along the coastlands of Salarvya.  The annual rainfall 
at Penom is over 425 cm, while at Jakalla it is 380 cm.  This contrasts 
with Bey Su and other central cities to the north which have an annual 
rainfall of about 70 cm.”


Vra:

Vra is about 400 Tsan NS and 300 EW. The northern  shore is high and 
precipitous, sloping down somewhat to the east, where it becomes a 
region of pretty, forested, fields and copses on the shores of the 
Strait of Hanar (whoever HE was) across which lies Thayuri Isle. The 
northern portion of the island is sparsely populated, rocky, and 
comparatively mountainous. There are vineyards, Hma and Hmelu 
pasturage, orchards, and berry fields there. The central "saddle" 
between Lnoris and the City of Vra is lower, more populous, planted in 
grain (mostly Dna), vegetables, and big Mash-fruit trees. Workshops and 
shipyards fill the coves on the eastern shore, and Vra itself sits in a 
charming harbour, with white houses with brown and red tiled roofs, 
occasional temple pyramids, palaces, and parks where the lithe, golden-
skinned Vrayani children play. This region is called "Avanthe's Table" 
because of its richness and beauty. The great clanhouses (those 
mentioned in a previous dispatch to the Blue Room and also some other, 
minor ones) are built like walled fortresses upon the hills behind the 
City of Vra. A single broad thoroughfare leads from Vra to Lnoris. This 
is not a Sakbe Road, of course, but it is a very good secondary road. 
Other, smaller roads lead northward and southward to other villages and 
towns. The southern part of Vra contains a central mountain peak, the 
"Old Woman Watcher." Small fishing villages, fruit orchards, and tiny 
grain-fields occupy the coves and inlets along these shores. [Note: 
“Thu’inin Senyaratorakh would be the literal translation of “Old Woman 
Watcher”: old (adj.) + watch-person-feminine-nonhonorific.  Senyara is 
“to watch over something.” In colloquial Vrayani, however, most people 
say Thunsenya, and add the –kh suffix for feminine or ignoble when 
trying to mind their grammar: Thunsenyakh.]

The one major river is the Hlanel (stress on the "nel"). It flows down 
from the northern mountains, takes a sharp eastern turn, and debouches 
into the Bay of Vra through the City of Vra. There are three bridges 
across this little river: the westernmost is the Span of the Judge, 
then the Bridge of Hejjeka IV "The Restorer of Dignities," and the 
easternmost (a longish pontoon bridge) is called the Bridge of Mighty 
Ships (for reasons nobody knows).

The north western coast is higher land with cliffs falling dramatically 
to the sea. This is why Lnoris is the last good port on the run across 
to Penom on the way to the West.  The northern cliffs are not as high 
and steep as those of Dover, but they do make for glorious scenery. 
Lnoris has easy access across the "saddle" to the City of Vra, and 
timber for ships, tar, cordage, etc.  are shipped to it from Thayuri 
Isle and other places, including Salarvyani goods brought in to Vra and 
less commonly, Mu'ugalavyani products sent the other way to Salarvya. 
There is no large, safe harbour on the long point that faces Tleku 
across the Strait of Hanar, but little fishing boats and a few 
passenger craft do ply those waters.

Lnoris is a typical Vrayani city. Most of the inhabitants are followers 
of Lady Avanthe (or Dilinala), with a few members of other faiths. The 
industries are mostly connected with the sea, fishing, and transport of 
goods. Lnoris is one of the last good all-weather ports before the long 
trip north to Penom, one of the regular stops on the Salarvyanu-
Tsolyanu-Mu'ugalavya run. The stone seawall was built by the 
Engsvanyali, and it has been rebuilt and expanded by Emperor Hejjeka IV 
"Restorer of Dignities." 

Vra is quite prosperous, rich and sunny, with lots of fine fruits, 
flowers, wines, and sweet, perfumed Dmi-sugar candies that are exported 
up to Jakalla and beyond. There is about as much agriculture on Vra as 
on Thayuri, but the latter's main products are sea-fish, shellfish, 
mother-of-pearl (a similar substance not identical with old Earth's), 
wines, etc.


Thayuri Isle

Thayuri has a central rocky ridge, and the river is really a rough 
little stream. The whole south sank somewhat, and the swamps were 
formed in the shallows of the low ground that was left. Ganga clearly 
is a tilted piece of real estate, sloping sharply down to the east. 
Thayuri is similar, but with less of a tilt since it had a higher 
central ridge in the first place.


Tleku is a port city: wharves, warehouses, businesses, all at the 
western end, near the sea. Behind this, the city slopes up rapidly to a 
north-south crest that is the highest point of the island. There are 
palaces and temples built on these upper slopes. Behind the crest, to 
the northeast, the island slopes down very rapidly and ends up 
underwater, with muck, icky vegetation, and swamp creatures (most 
harmless: the big ones across the Bay have been eradicated on the 
island itself). The northwestern part of the island is covered with 
farms, fields, grape-vineyards, etc. Inland, this region becomes 
mountainous and rugged, with deep ravines and steep hillsides -- the 
leftovers of the great catastrophe so many years ago. Between the two 
"arms" of the central range is a depression that is swampy and jungle-
covered. 

The Ma'an (stress on second "a')is the name of the river at whose Tleku 
sits. I think. I don't have my original reference map in front of me 
right now, but I believe this is it. It's a short, tumultuous river, 
not very deep, but quite pretty. It rises in the central highlands and 
tumbles right down to the sea, where there is a north-south bridge that 
splits Old Tleku off from New Tleku to the south. Neither Old nor New 
Tleku are really old or new, of course -- the newest buildings on the 
island are the palaces and governmental offices of the Imperium, back 
up to the east behind the port. The port has an enclave of sailors and 
foreigners, as might be expected, with small districts devoted to 
Ahoggya and Shen -- no other nonhumans in any number -- and lots of 
Salarvyani, Haida Pakalani, and other human wanderers.

The temples, clanhouses, and government structures of Tleku do climb 
back up away from the bright blue waters of the semi-circular port with 
its massive stone seawalls. There are no demolished blocks left, but 
the stone bridge that crosses the Ma'an is made of Engsvanyali masonry 
that has been reused. The highest ridge houses the Governor's palace, 
the temple of Hnalla, and the temple of Lady Avanthe. The other deities 
have shrines that are lower down, the farthest being that to Lord 
Ksarul off to the north end of the city along the ridge.

Thayuri is not isolated but rather a busy little shipping port, 
with lots of products from Salarvya coming in that are shipped off to 
Tsolyanu and Mu'ugalavya (via Vra). The fruits and wines of Thayuri 
Isle are quite popular, and various sea delicacies are also dried, 
salted, etc. and sent off to other markets. Some of the old shipping 
clans have clanhouses here.

Thayuri Isle is known for its wines and fine, reddish-purple Dlel-
fruit. The islanders mainly live off sea products, however: fish, 
shellfish, various types of kelp-like plants that are tasty eating, 
cordage made from another sea plant, etc. There are pearls and a few 
other products, as well. The island also functions as a take-off point 
for shipping in the archipelago, across to Vra, south to Ganga Isle, 
etc. Most of the islanders are Stability worshippers, claiming to be 
descended from the Priestkings and their court. 

Ganga Isle

Ganga clearly is a tilted piece of real estate, sloping sharply down to 
the east.

During the first millenium of Engsvanyali rule, a new seaport was 
constructed at Petris Layoda.  Pottery kilns, wineries, fisheries, 
looms and other crafts were encouraged with subsidies and concessions. 

Lilsu Isle

Lilsu Isle is low, rolling, covered with rather pretty farms and 
estates owned by magnates from Jakalla, the Kaija Protectorate, and 
also from Thayuri Isle. Most of these estates grow garden vegetables, 
fruits, and crops for the markets of the other islands and also 
Jakalla. Nuts, berries, Dlel-fruit, and other commodities bring in a 
lot of wealth. There are only small port towns on Lilsu, too small to 
be marked on the map. There is also a central ridge of scrub forest, 
where a few wild animals can still be found. The island is about 90 
Tsan east-west, by 30 north-south. There are no good all-weather ports, 
however, and when storms come, the inhabitants haul their fishing boats 
and cargo vessels out of water and put them into protected drydocks. 
This precludes larger vessels, of course. There are also dangerous 
shallow waters and shoals off the northwest corner of the island, which 
only a skilled pilot can avoid. The island is technically under the 
governorship of Thayuri Isle, but in fact it tends to be semi-
autonomous, run by wealthy landholders and business folk from Jakalla, 
Kaija, and Thayuri Isle.

Burru Isle

[No Information]

Dlanta Isle

Dlanta is a singularly unpleasant little place: a tumbled mass of 
stones and scrub jungle rising right up out of the sea. Straight, buff-
coloured cliffs filled with little holes in which millions of gull-like 
Deshqa-birds (the name is Salarvyani) nest and drop unpleasant gifts 
down upon those who would want to climb. The place is more easily 
accessible at the lower eastern end, where the scruffy town of Be'esa 
lies. Be'esa exports figs and other sea creatures, some of the black 
whelks that provide the Salarvyani with their favoured black dye, a 
small number of pearls and coral, etc. The rulers of the place have a 
rather wretched "palace" atop the westernmost hill in Be'esa. For much 
of this century the Salarvyani have ruled the island, but older records 
also suggest some degree of independence. I don't recall that the Haida 
Pakalani ever controlled the island, although they do have sizeable 
businesses and ship-refitting yards outside Be'esa along the coast to 
the southwest. Most raw materials have to be imported, as there is 
little timber. The locals used to exist on a grey-green thorny plant 
called Nmidz, which they clean, boil, and turn into a sort of mush. 
Now, however, there are foodstuffs imported from Gunurum Isle across 
the straits.

The majority of the population is Salarvyani. Haida Pakalani 
pirates/businessmen make up a good percentage, as do Ahoggya from the 
Sharuna Lowlands. These last have their own foods and section of the 
city, and their boxy, awful-smelling ships ply the seas over to Keruna. 
A few enterprising Ahoggya have undertaken the long journey farther 
east to the Isles of Ill Winds and Onmu Tle Hlektis.

Msumtel Bay

The name Msumtel Bay does not quite reach as far south as Songgyal Isle 
-- only to the northern edge of Tamkade Bay -- a rather vague 
delineation. All of this area is named, although some parts are not 
often traversed by human shipping: e.g. the little islands closest in 
to the Layoda Swamps. This area is the "Drowned Land": a region of 
great underwater tree trunks, vines, roots, and vegetation that contain 
some of the ugliest creatures on the planet, many not in the Bestiary 
at all! The western reaches of the Gilraya Forest become progressively 
wetter and denser jungle, and by the time one reaches the boundaries of 
the Layoda Swamps, there is no ground underfoot at all -- only 
squelching vegetation and dismal water. At the south edge of the 
Gilraya Forests, along Tamkade Bay, the land rises somewhat, and there 
are stretches of miasmal coastal swamps all along here. Ships generally 
stay well to the south of this, and hug the Salarvyani coast all the 
way up to Heru.
 

History

The earliest records show that the Dragon Warriors established 
strongholds on the isles of Ganga, Thayari and Vra.  These were seized 
by the 2nd Fishermen King, Ho Etehltu (he who wore the Ebon Helm and sat 
on the Ebon Throne), after he built his navy of small, fast galleys.  
They marked the western edge of the Fishermen Kings’ empire.  

The people of the southern islands were always renowned as great 
slingers.  Epic poems from the time of the Fishermen Kings relate the 
adventures of Khu’es vuNaoma whose sling-stone struck out the 4th eye of 
the demon Kurritlakal and thus saved mankind. 

The First (Bednalljan) Imperium seems to have established these 
slingers as regular light infantry.  Engsvanyali records also state 
that once the troops of Vra were garlanded with wreaths of gold and 
given sacks of “sling-stones of diamon and rubies and all precious 
gems” as a reward for their slaying of the Hlyss and the Hlutrgu. 


Vra

After the fall of Ganga, Vra became independent and remained so for a 
thousand years [at least], ruled by the God-Kings of Vra.  The God-
Kings bore the Sapphire Seal of their dynasty and lived in the citadel 
entitled “The Tower of Perfect Power.”  There apparently was at least 
an advisory committee to the throne since we also hear of the Eyrie of 
the Seven Councilors, also located in the citadel. They held off hluss, 
hlutrgu, Tsolyani and pirates of the southern seas.  Indeed, the High 
Pinnacle Clan of Vra was the enemy of the Tlakotanis for many 
centuries.  They killed all Tsolyani who landed there, including 
merchants and fisherfolk, earning Vra the name “The First of the Isles 
of the Excellent Dead” in “The Final Song of Cha-Nume” by Aresma 
hiAmiyala (976 A.S.).  

Early on, though, they did choose to harbor some enemies of the 
Tlakotanis: when the “People of the Peak” refused to join the first 
Tlakotani emperor and fled to Vra, the Vrayani gave them refuge. They 
apparently formed [were from?] the High Pinnacle Clan.  “Not much is 
known [about the People of the Peak].  They were apparently dissidents 
against the Engsvanyali, and when the island of Ganga sank, they fled 
not to Thayari Isle but westward to Vra, where they quickly became cosy 
with the local anti-Tsolyani attitude.  There were probably no more 
than two or three hundred of these folk, plus some retainers and serfs.  
Later, the Vrayani tried to seal off their island keep it “pure” from 
Tsolyani influence.  The “People of the Peak” played a small role in 
the political infighting that went on sporadically until the Imperium 
conquered the island in 1115 A.S. 

The date of the founding of the Legion of the Joyful Clan of the Noble 
Vrayani is unknown. But within a hundred years after the founding of 
the Tlakotani dynasty, the slingers were recorded as “serving beside 
the throne of the God-King of Vra.”  Many legends and epic poems were 
written about the slingers.  The Song of Tneyu vuWasuma praises his 
daring raid on the homeland of the hlutrgu and the treasures he seized 
from there.  These were kept in the Eyrie of the Seven Councilors in 
the citadel of Vra until 1115 A.S. when they were removed by the 
Tsolyani. Hejjeka IV returned the treasures to the Eyrie where they 
remain today. 

The Tsolyani attempted the conquest of the island several times.  The 
penultimate assault on Vra by the Tsolyani was ordered by Kanmi’yel 
Nikuma III “the Scourage of Vimuhla” sometime during his reign (1062-
1074 A.S.)  Although he invaded with a huge army, it’s unclear how much 
was accomplished since Vra did not fall until the invasion in 1115 A.S. 
by his successor Kanmi’yel Nikuma IV “the Flattener of Peaks.”  During 
the Scourage’s attack, the Legion of the Lord of Red Devastation, 18th 
Imperial Medium Infantry, saw service in Vra, the island of Thayari, 
and finally on ancient Ganga itself, where it gained battle honors.  
The records imply it stayed on Ganga, since its next movement was when 
Empress Janule in 1123 A.S. ordered it posted back to Tumissa.   The 
Legion of the Clan of the Broken Bough, 19th Imperial Archers, also took 
part in the Scourage’s attack on Vra. 

The defining event of recent Vrayani history was the successful 
Tsolyani invasion of 1115 A.S. by Emperor Kanmi’yel Nikuma IV “the 
Flattener of Peaks.”  Amazing resources were poured into the effort to 
crush this independent island.  The Legion of Girikteshmu, 23rd Imperial 
Archers, swept the shores of Vra with arrows and prepared the way for 
the landing of the Tsolyani forces.  The Legion of the Givers of 
Sorrow, 8th Imperial Heavy Infantry, won battle honors for the 
resounding defeat of the Vrayani on the northern end of the island 
(they had little chance against the better armed and trained Tsolyani).  
They then joined in on the final siege of the city of Vra where they 
received honorable mention in the battle reports.  Two Cohorts of the 
Legion of Mengano the Jakallan, 12th Imperial Artillery battered 
unsuccessfully at the walls of the citadel, “The Tower of Perfect 
Power.”  The citadel finally fell at the hands of the Battalion of 
Vrishtara the Mole, 2nd Imperial Sappers, commanded by Vrishtara 
hiAuvesu.  The clever engineering of this unit opened the sea beneath 
the Vrayani citadel, washing away its foundations and bringing down 
enough of it to allow the Tsolyani storming parties to fight their way 
into the place.  The Regiment of the Clan of the Silver Lightning, 7th 
Imperial Archers was granted battle honors for their part of this final 
attack.  The Legion of the Blood-Red Orb (now called the Legion of Lord 
Kharihaya, 14th Imperial Crossbowmen); the Legion of Hnalla, Master of 
Light, 4th Imperial Heavy Infantry; the Legion of Mirkitani, Hero of 
Victories, 7th Imperial Heavy Infantry; and some minor contingents of 
the Legion of Tik-nekw-ket, 1st Imperial Pe Choi Auxiliary Medium 
Infantry were also recorded as aiding in the annexation of Vra. 

After their victory, the last defenders of the citadel were strangled 
with their own slings and their bodies were defiled.  The Tsolyani 
exterminated the Vra nobility to a man and sold their women and 
children into slavery in the mines north of Avanthar. [Some had more 
obscure fates, such as the Princess Eddyana “the Singer of the Golden 
Cage”]. The streets of the city of Vra were paved with flayed skins of 
those who had dared to oppose the Imperium.  The High Pinnacle Clan was 
presumed extinct.  However, the last God-King escaped in a boat as the 
Tsolyani troops landed.  His descendants lived as potters in Jakalla. 

Then, in 1458 A.S., Hejjeka IV “Restorer of Dignities” proclaimed a 
general amnesty to all “who had been foes of the glory of the 
Tsolyani.” A commoner stepped out of the crowd at the coronation 
festival at Bey Su – a direct, lineal descendant of the last of the 
God-Kings of Vra, proving this by his possession of the lost Sapphire 
Seal of the Vrayani dynasty.  The Emperor granted him a pardon and 
restored him as fiefholder under Imperial law. The Vrayani greeted him 
with the wildest jubilation and proclaimed loyalty to him and his 
successors forever.  However, he had lived all his life in Tsolyanu (as 
had his ancestors by then for some three hundred years) and he 
continued to serve the Tlakotani Dynasty loyally and almost fanatically 
until he died in 1501 A.S. His descendants have been faithful ever 
since. 

Hejjeka IV also combed the Empire for any other descendants of the 
original nobility of Vra.  Most were still in the north living as 
mountaineers and peasants.  The coming of the gorgeously dressed 
Imperial officials to the villages is recounted in the “Hymn to the 
Light Above” by Ndiu vuChrayu (composed in 1550 A.S.).  To their great 
surprise, the villagers were not massacred or enslaved but were instead 
robed in the strange costumes of the people of Vra, given great sums of 
money, and were returned in magnificent splendor to the island of their 
long-forgotten ancestors.  There they had to learn all over again the 
skills of a sea people, and there were those who quietly left and 
returned to their new homeland in the north.  The majority, however, 
adapted and survived. 

Hejjeka V “the Open-Handed” completed the process by granting nobility 
in the Empire to all descended from the ancient Vrayani aristocracy, 
and he supplied money and equipment to found a new Legion of slingers: 
the Legion of the Joyful Clan of Noble Vrayani, 3rd Imperial Slingers. 


Thayari Isle

Thayari is mentioned in Bednalljan records in connection with the 
Legion of the Echoing Stones.  The legion repelled the Hlutrgu who 
assaulted the island in force during the reign of Queen Nayari of the 
Silken Thighs.  The General who led the legion was from the Clan of the 
Might of Ganga and met his death at the hands of Queen Nayari on the 
17th of Shapru.  His death is still ritually commemorated each year on 
this date by Might of Ganga. 

Isle of Ganga

Ganga Isle was the home of Pavar, who discovered the Gods of Stability.  
He was a lowly priest at a shrine to Lord Enome, an aspect of Lord 
Ksarul.  Ships would come crammed with pilgrims and devotees from 
Jakalla, Vra, Penom and Salarvya seeking remedies and miracles.  In the 
3rd century after his death, power shifted from the Bednalljan kings in 
Bey Su to Ganga.  Engsvan hla Ganga lasted over 10 millenia, until the 
eastern end tilted down beneath the waves, carrying with it the 
metropolis of the Priestkings.  Only the western end remains today. 

After the fall of Ganga, creatures of the Underworld, brought to the 
surface by flooding and continued seismic tremblors, prowled the 
littered streets of Tleku, Vra, and Petris Layoda. 

Where Ganga once stood is now at the bottom of a rather shallow bay, 
filled with alluvial mud brought down by the Missuma River. You can 
still see the tops of broken towers and tumbled walls when the water is 
clear, and there are guides and tourist boats that will take you out 
there and show you what they call "the great palace" and the "Temple of 
Pavar," and a host of other wonders. A few wizards have underwater 
breathing capabilities (actually openings to other Planes where there 
is air) and have trod the mosaic floors of the Priestkings' pavilions. 
Much of whatever was there has been looted or buried in mud. Much has 
been ruined, too: the guides usually point down into the water at a 
round-domed squat tower and tell the tourists that this is the Imperial 
library. One of the wizards then wrote that he had personally visited 
that building and had found nothing there but waterlogged paper and 
ruined bookbindings, But he also said that he saw "boxes of metal" and 
chests -- perhaps waterproof?

The guide does pay good bribes to the local administrators to provide 
occasional "proofs" of his tourist legends. A soggy bookbinding with 
the Priestkings' sigil upon it is worth a lot to these fellows. There 
are dozens of little boys industriously manufacturing stone, clay, and 
metal statues and religious icons "dug up from the ocean floor where 
once Great Pavar walked." Some local entrepreneur once put together a 
bundle of plastic tubes and bottles and called it a "magic breather" 
for use in exploring underwater Ganga. Three people died before they 
gave up on trying to make it work . . . 

Gems and gold and other wealth have all been systematically looted from 
sunken Ganga. Some was rescued by the Priestkings' minions themselves, 
other stuff was scavenged by local boys diving for it, and still more 
has been acquired since by other means. There is probably not much left 
on the surface of the sea-bottom. There may indeed be air-filled 
chambers somewhere down there, and really complex tunnel systems fed 
with air from the Planes Beyond are possible. If these exist, they are 
well guarded and concealed.

It is written somewhere that the Temple of Sarku maintains a sub-sea 
shrine down in the ancient Engsvanyali catacombs -- in honour of the 
myriad dead buried there.

During the Engsvanyali empire, the High Threshold at Ganga commanded 
the raising of a force titled “the Heroes of the Lord of Wisdom” to 
guard the shrine of Pavar.  This legion (to which the 22nd Imperial 
Heavy Infantry traces its roots) contained men, women and nonhumans in 
armor of imperishable steel and weapons begemmed with steel-grey star 
sapphires.  They were the elite of the Engsvanyali Imperium; the 
Prefect of the Legion sat high in the Councils of the Priesthoods.

When Ganga sank, they remained and drowned (see “Paean to the Last 
Warrior” by Holdukai hiVirsenyal, found in any Temple of Thumis).  When 
the first Tlakotani emperor came to power, only a handful of aged men 
still guarded the Outer Precincts of the Shrine of Pavar (what remained 
above the sea).  What became of them is not known, though there were 
several Hlutrgu raids during the reigns of the early emperors.  By the 
time of Heshqu Miuna I (195-196 A.S.) they were gone. 

Another legion from Engsvanyali times is the Legion of the 12 Paths of 
Avanthe, 9th Imperial Slingers.  Based in Petris Layoda, the legion 
dates back to when the priestesses of Avanthe established a corps of 
guards for the sacred precincts of the great shrine of Avanthe of the 
12 Paths.  The Legion is mentioned in Tsolyani times as part of the 
entourage of Empress Sriyesa “Lady of the Palaces” (464-517 A.S.).(This 
is yet another sign that Vrayani attitudes weren’t shared by the 
inhabitants of the other southern islands).  Most of the troops were 
priestesses as no recruiting was done among the priests.  The Legion 
met a sad end when the Empress’ last consort, General Horkhumen posted 
it to the western border to fight Pachi Lei.  Briefly revived under 
Kurshetl Nikuma I “the Seizer of Cities” (580–641 A.S.)and Arodai 
Nikuma (641–709 A.S.), supplied with troops from Ganga, it was 
destroyed by Hehejallu “the Dark Moon” who ordered it to march through 
the northern deserts from Khirgar to the seige of Pelesar.  Ill-
supplied, all died at the hands of desert tribes at an oasis now called 
“the Place of Bones.” 

Ganga also suffered from the curious episode of the Legion of Guruggma, 
1st (later 3rd) Imperial Ahoggya Auxiliary Heavy Infantry.  Emperor 
Durumu “the Copper Blade of Sarku” (1747-1809 A.S.) recruited this 
Legion largely to oppress the people of the island of Ganga, many of 
whom follow Avanthe.  Within a year, the Ahoggya had fought a pitched 
battle with the city guard, defiled a temple of Dilinala and publicly 
eaten 3 priestesses of the Blue Goddess.  Appeals to the Imperium went 
unheeded.  Only when the priesthood of Avanthe threatened a full-scale 
uprising on Ganga did the Emperor order the Ahoggya to desist.  They 
didn’t.  Instead, they went on a destructive rampage in the ancient and 
hallowed ruins on the eastern end of the island.  The priests brought 
out certain powerful weapons from the days before the Time of Darkness 
and annihilated the Ahoggya until they retreated and barricaded 
themselves into their headquarters in Petris Layoda.  The Imperium then 
held the High Prietess of Avanthe at Bey Su hostage until the Gangan 
priests ended the seige.

Mainue “the Iridescent Goddess” (1809-1872), an Avanthe worshipper, 
order the Legion to disband.  When they didn’t understand this order, 
she ordered them to attackt the Hlutrgu.  They attacked directly across 
the straits to the east of Ganga and cleansed a large area of the thick 
swamp of the forests of Gilraya.  Then they advanced north to Msumtel 
Bay until they were annihilated by the Hlutrgu.

Emperor Heshtu’atl “the Mighty” (2168-2234) allowed the reconstituted 
Legion (now the 3rd Imperial Ahoggya Auxiliary Heavy Infantry) to return 
to Ganga, believing that he could show the priesthood of Avanthe that 
the Ahoggya were reasonable and harmless if kept under control.  He 
even gave permission for the Avanthe priestesses to proselytize among 
the Ahoggya.  Riots and strife were the result, and the Legion was 
allowed to decay (no new recruits were added).  Lately, Hirkane 
reactived it and wisely moved it to Jakalla. 


Burru Isle

During the Third Epoch of Engsvan hla Ganga, a son of the Empress 
Chayetlesa II became “The Monster of Burru Isle.”  He was a psychotic 
who murdered over 360 persons, ate portions of their bodies, and 
ordered the torture of dozens of victims.  His mother exiled him to a 
tower on Burru Isle where he died.  Legend has it that his ghost – and 
those of his captives – still haunt the place. 

Emperor Kanmi’yel Nikuma IV “The Flattener of Peaks” offered to settle 
an entire egg-group of Shen on Burru Isle, but the offer wasn’t taken 
up. 

Culture 

One must distinguish between Vra and the other southern islands. 
Ganga, Thayuri, Burru Isle, and even little Lilsu Isle are all part of 
the Engsvanyali heritage, while Vra was always separate, with a 
different dialect, a somewhat different culture (hardly more than a 
sub-culture, really), and very distinct political objectives that did 
not include being subservient to the lords of Bey Su, Jakalla, and the 
north. The temples of Engsvanyalu had better luck with the Vrayani than 
the Priestkings' political arm. The temple of Lady Avanthe was 
particularly popular -- and was perhaps identified with one or another 
of the goddesses of the southern seas (cf. the Sourcebook, p. 54) in 
this area.



Vra

Enjoy Vra! It's a lovely place. A little tense with ancient clan 
rivalries and now political differences, but still one of the nicer 
locales of the Empire. I've always had a soft spot for old Vra; there's 
nothing like sailing in to Vra Harbour just after sunset, with the 
coloured paper lanterns of the wealthy twinkling in the colonnades of 
the white clan-palaces rising up like cliffs behind the docks. The 
smells of spices, incense, cooking, and fresh fruit heaped on the quays 
give Vra its own sweet, exotic atmosphere. The tinkling bells and heady 
rhythms of the drums of the Temple of Dlamelish, which stands right 
beside the Bridge of Mighty Ships call the visitor to stay and drowse 
awhile.

To fit in on Vra and gain influence, let him be generous and full of 
mirth, as Yetil says (in Engsvanyali verse). Thus is the gateway to the 
heart of Vra opened. Let him hear all who come to him, reflect wisely, 
judge carefully -- and then pass it all off with a joke...

The Vrayani are traditionally more fun-loving, more given to jokes and 
humour -- or at least an occasional smile -- than the serious and 
status-conscious Tsolyani, much less the dour residents of Khirgar and 
Yan Kor. There is always a party, usually informal, without all of the 
structured and stratified entertainments and feasting found in the 
Empire itself. The Arena in the City of Vra is often filled with clowns 
and pretty girls, and athletic events, rather than with grim and bloody 
gladiators. The Vrayani value singing, playing the Sra'ur (rather like 
a lute), folkdancing (which the mighty of Tsolyanu would not be caught 
dead doing), art, and erotic poetry. The Engsvanyali poet Yetil is much 
admired, and his sensuous verses have been translated into Tsolyani and 
also into the Vrayani dialect of Tsolyani, as well as other tongues. 
There is a thriving book-copying and selling business in Lnoris, as 
well as in the City of Vra.

Along with more jollity, the Vrayani are also given to hotter tempers 
and more violence, especially over women (and their women fight just 
as often over men!), gambling, and the custom of daring each other to 
perform feats of athletic prowess -- and quarreling over it. Be a 
little careful when addressing a Vrayani, male or female, especially 
one who wears the slim Vrayani dagger in a sheath at his or her hip.

Many of the old lineages have been represented on the island of Vra for 
millennia, and a number of these have members in the Joyous of Vra.  
Intermarriage is fairly common and not frowned upon, provided that the 
link is with an equal or higher clan.  Hence, lineage names often 
overlap, and the Vrayani are an amiable, outgoing bunch, who don’t mind 
such unions. (Contrast this to the attitude of the locals in City of 
Sarku, Hmakuyal or even Khirgar) Some lineage names specifically 
associated with Vra are vuWasuma, vuChrayu, hi Makkochaqu [Princes of 
Vra], hiHoqqulen [of the Clan of the High Pinnacle if not others too], 
vuHaggoshe and vuNaoma.

The Temple of Qon on Vra contains several very old copies of the 
writings of Pavar.  One, written on leaves of gold and ornamented with 
yellow gems, is said to have been rescued by divers from the sunken 
palace of the Priestkings itself.  Although it possesses no magical 
powers, the worshippers of Qon believe it to be sacred, having been 
personally presented by Qon to Pavar. 

On a more mysterious note, fisherfolk around the isle of Vra claim to 
see vessels propelled by other-planar magic (at least, without oars and 
sails) silently cruising the deeper waters around the island. 

During the reign of Hirkane, the love songs of Vra were fashionable. 


Thayari Isle

The Thayuri are very proud of their "nobility" and would probably take 
violent exception to someone who suggested otherwise.  The people of 
Thayuri are NOT Vrayanai and feel little ethnic identity with Vra. The 
Thayuri consider themselves to be descended from the mighty Priestkings 
of Ganga, and some clans still have legends of arriving by boat on the 
island after the catastrophe that sank mighty Ganga to the south.  The 
Might of Ganga Clan, particularly the Zayuvu lineage, are aristocratic 
bluebloods, who consider anything not traceable back to the court of 
the Priestkings somewhat declasse.

Thayari Isle has always been a bastion of loyalty to the Imperium; just 
why is not known.


Isle of Ganga

While the Temple of Hnalla in Bey Su is renowned for its research 
regarding the fall of the First Empire, more generalized studies of the 
20-millenium reign of Engsvan hla Ganga are best pursued in the Temple 
of Hnalla on the Isle of Ganga itself. 

While all the southern islands were famed for their military prowess in 
Engsvanyali times, Ganga has not provided many Imperial Legions in 
recent times.  In “The Book of the Settling into the Sea” by Chumireru 
vuHaggoshe, a famous modern author from Petris Layoda, this is 
attributed to the sinking of the eastern half of Ganga into the sea: 
“[It] so saddened the men of that place and brought them to consider 
the futility of the Weave of the Skein of Destiny that they thenceforth 
eschewed all military activity and took to seeking their solace in the 
contemplation of their past glories and the victories of their 
ancestors.” 

Dlanta Isle

Salarvyani cultural influence is dominant here. The inhabitants are 
industrious and avaricious. They do the fishing, building, dyeing, and 
other crafts, and their leaders occupy most of the seats in the local 
governor's council. The Salarvyani are touchy and quick to impale 
and/or enslave offenders. Their social code is complex and almost 
unintelligible to outsiders.

They would prefer a God who exists and can help them in their squalid 
lives.  They are thus happiest with Salarvya's Shiringgayi. Various 
other deities have small shrines in Be'esa as well: of Pavar's 
pantheon, Avanthe and Karakan have larger followings than the others; 
Hru'u, Thumis, and Sarku are not popular at all. Dlamelish is quite 
popular, however, since she is considered to be one "Aspect" of 
Shiringgayi, and her worshippers admittedly have more "fun." The 
Salarvyani apparently see no contradictions. One can see men and women 
bearing terrible scars inflicted at the orgies of Hrihayal, too. Those 
who bear up well under this punishment are considered heroes and are 
fed and well-treated by the community.

About the only recreation in Dlanta is drinking black Dronu and 
gambling, aside from the aforementioned orgies. . No one gambles with 
the Haida Pakalani, of course; their clever cheating is famous! Younger 
men and girls vie in swimming, catching dangerous shark-fish, diving 
for pearls (not very good near in to shore), and racing one another 
along the narrow, rocky beaches.  The Salarvyani family system is 
maintained, with complex codes of behaviour and duties.

Not a place I would recommend for a holiday.


Politics

Outside Threats:

The Salarvyani have not been able to extend their control to the 
islands, at least not completely nor for any length of time. They do 
raid, loot, and take slaves. The Tsolyani, Vrayani, etc. have been able 
to fend off the one or two largish attempts at conquest mounted by the 
Lords of Chame'el.

Songyal Island is some sort of cult site, probably devoted to an aspect 
of Shiringgayi who has to do with the sea. 

The Hlutrgu often fight the Tsolyani in Kaija Protectorate, make 
shipping Msumtel Bay nearly impossible and even raid the eastern shores 
of Thayari Isle, Burru Isle, and Ganga Isle.  The Tsolyani fortify 
towns and villages in the region and endure occasional massed attacks 
since it’s not worth it to invade the Hlutrgu homeland.  The Hlutrgu 
make no effort to consolidate territorial gains. 


Religion:
The southern islands are a bastion of support for the Lords of 
Stability, though some Change worshippers can be found.  This is no 
doubt due to the lingering influence of Pavar.  Worship of Avanthe, 
Hnalla, Karakan and Chegarra is most prominent.


Vra

Important Personages:

Governor of Vra: Lord Hu’un hiChle

Mirkitani vuMakkochaqu, Prince of Vra, General of the Legion of 
Mirkitani, Hero of Victories, 7th Imperial Heavy Infantry.  He is a 
powerful soldier and warrior, a personal friend of General Kettukal and 
Prince Eselne, one of the greatest strengths of the Military Party.

Sryma hiHoqqulen, Lord of Vra, General of the Battalions of Sryma of 
Vra, 39th Imperial Medium Infantry, of the Clan of the High Pinnacle. 
Sryma is a good soldier, having served under General Kettukal, and is a 
friend of the Governor of Vra, Lord Hu’un hiChle.  In fact, there are 
plans for him to marry the governor’s sister, once again bringing a 
member of the High Pinnacle Clan into the Palace of the God-Kings of 
Vra. 

Lord Miruene vuChrayu, General of the Legion of the Joyful Clan of the 
Noble Vrayani, 3rd Imperial Slingers.  He is a seasoned soldier, a good 
strategist who often advises General Kettukal, and a staunch supporter 
of the Imperium.  He worship Hnalla but cooperates with the Military 
Party.

Hagarr hiChunmiyal, General of the Flotilla of Hagarr of Paranta, 1st 
Imperial Marines (may live in Jakalla or Thayari Isle, it’s not clear). 
He’s a rather old man, an excellent sailor who also owns a fleet of 
merchant ships, and he hopes to pass the Legion on to his son Miridame 
hiChunmiyel.

Noted Clans:

Joyous of Vra
High Pinnacle Clan

Military Forces:

Vra is by far the most bellicose of the islands, hosting 3 Legions and 
sending men to serve in two others.  

The Legion of Mirkitani, Hero of Victories, 7th Imperial Heavy Infantry, 
has been garrisoned on Vra since 1115.  It has done much to consolidate 
Imperial power in the islands and currently boasts a very prominent 
General. (Some troops are also garrisoned in Jakalla)

The most recent incarnation of the Legion of the Joyful Clans of the 
Noble Vrayani, 3rd Imperial Slingers, was established in 1582 under 
Hejjeka V “the Open Handed.”  It has seen much action across the empire 
and is currently deeply involved in the Yan Koryani war, most of the 20 
Cohorts are at Chene Ho preparing an offensive.  Most of the troops 
worship Hnalla but are willing to cooperate with the Military Party.

The Battalions of Sryma of Vra is the newest legion, established under 
Hirkane at the urging of Sryma.  The Legion was created in the spirit 
of developing a truly Vrayani local autonomy and culture. It’s 
currently 11 Cohorts strong and growing.  The Legion is devoted to the 
Clan of the High Pinnacle and the worship of Lord Chegarra.

The Flotilla of Hagarr of Paranta, 1st Imperial Marines, keeps 500 ships 
based at Penom and Jakalla.  Another 200-300 ships are kept at Vra, 
Tleku on Thayari Isle and Petris Layoda on the island of Ganga.  The 
navy is small because of the threat of a southern invasion is perceived 
to be small due to the difficulties of this approach.  Each ship has a 
crew of sailors who fight at best as light infantry.  The main defense 
is the complement of marines, the equivalent of medium land troops.  
The marines’ duties include fighting from ship to ship, landing and 
destroying pirate nests, and defending the southern shores against 
smugglers.  Due to a past scandal, no one from the Clan of the Red Sky 
can serve as an officer on a ship. 

Lastly, half the men recruited into the Squadrons of Tlaneno the 
Steersman, 3rd Imperial Marines, come from Vra, Thayari and Ganga.  (The 
other half come from the coasts around Jakalla.)  This Legion was 
founded by Emperor Arshu’u “the Ever-Splendid” in 2251 A.S. and is 
closely connected to Golden Sunburst and the Temples of Karakan and 
Chegarra in Jakalla.  In 2349, they defeated the Hlyss incursion off 
Ngeshtu Head, but otherwise have seen only the usual number of raids, 
pirates and smugglers.  Currently used only to control the river 
traffic from Jakalla to Avanthar and along the Rananga River to the 
east.  The present commander is General Tlaneno hiVorodlaya of Golden 
Sunburst, a Karakan worshipper, a close friend of Eselne and a 
supporter of the Military Party.  He wants more action and is bidding 
his time, waiting for the right opportunity. 

Political/Administrative Divisions:

The etymologies of Sine and Vra are not known – lost in history.  
Probably even pre-Engsvanyali and even First Imperium.  The division 
into two provinces was certainly Engsvanyali and was done for ease of 
administration.  Vra and Lnoris are clearly two separate ancient power 
centers.  (I once heard a legend that there had been warfare between 
them at some unguessably early time in mythological history.  I could 
never find any sources, however.)  Now there is really little rivalry 
between these provinces; the rulers of Vra itself seem to have 
triumphed, economically, over the inhabitants of Lnoris.  It's pretty 
much one country nowadays: rather like Kent and Surrey.   Vra seems to 
be the richer of the two provinces, and its agricultural products are 
more widely famed than those of its sister-province.  Nobody seems to 
mind very much.  The real provincial governor resides in Vra, while the 
governor of Lnoris is much less important.


There are two or three fiefs on Vra that are vacant. One belonged to a 
strong worshipper of Lord Durritlamish, a loyal fan of Dhich'une. It 
will almost certainly be vacated soon. One is vacant now, its previous 
owner having died at age 82. The third I'm not certain about -- have to 
check.

After Dhich’une became Emperor, his soldiers on Vra were polite, 
circumspect, and remained almost invisible, so as not to annoy the 
turbulent Vrayani.

After 2366, when a plague virtually wiped out the Livyanu population, 
and the Mu’ugalavyani invaded, Vra is in turmoil, having received no 
goods from Livyanu (because of the plague) and very little from 
Tsolyanu (because of the war).  There is a growing movement towards 
autonomy. 

[From a player on The Blue Room:  This shows that there is normally an 
important trade route to Livyanu from Vra.  For this to vie in 
importance with the routes to the Tsolyani mainland I believe that this 
suggsts that there is one trade route across open sea to Livyanu that 
avoids hugging the coast via Mu'ugalavya. This is an extraordinarily 
adventurous route that has only been mastered by Livyani vessels 
(possibly in Convoys) using a superior navigational technology to that 
displayed by the Tsolyani.  My researches have not yet uncovered 
whether this advantage is due to magic or skill ]


Thayari Isle and Lilsu Isle

Important Personages:
Governor: Lord Changartla hiMriyatlaku, of Golden Bough.  See below for 
extensive description.

Lord Ri’isma hiZayuvu, Lord of Tleku, General of the Legion of the 
Echoing Stone, 11th Imperial Heavy Infantry. He is a worshipper of 
Karakan, used his personal fortune and influence to get the Legion on 
its feet.

Noted Clans:
Might of Ganga


Military Forces:

Thayari Isle has only one Legion, though some ships from the 1st 
Imperial Marines are stationed at Tleku and some inhabitants go off to 
serve in the 3rd Imperial Marines (river cops in Jakalla).

The Legion of the Echoing Stone, 11th Imperial Heavy Infantry, has 
always been listed as the defenders of the city of Tleku.  They gave no 
resistance at the time of Tsolyani invasion of 1115 A.S. and were 
simply enrolled in Tsolyani records as a regular legion (their history 
before 1115 A.S. is obscure).  This was most likely due to the fact 
that the legion was small, the leaders were probably Tsolyani loyalists 
and the people of Thayari felt no ethnic identity with Vra.  It has 
served as the garrison of the south, and faded away when local 
lordlings didn’t keep it up.  Under Hirkane, it was reactivated at the 
urging of Lord Ri’isma hiZayuvu, a Karakan worshipper, who used his 
personal influence and fortune to get it back on its feet.  It now has 
7 Cohorts, one training in Tleku.  Lord Ri’isma is rumored to have 
uncovered a cache of ancient steel armor (+2) in the ruins of Ganga 
which is being remade into armor for his men – there is possible enough 
to equip several Cohorts. 


Political/Administrative Divisions:

Ganudla province covers Thayuri and Lilsu (map in volume one of the
split-up edition of the Sourcebook). The kerdu of the Legion of the
Echoing Stone (in 2358 at least) is Ri'isma hiZayavu of the Clan of the
Might of Ganga, and he is the "Lord of Tleku."  This is an historic, 
but rather empty title.  His clan and family are indeed very wealthy, 
but the true ruler of Thayari and Lilsu Isles is the Governor, who is 
someone appointed by the Imperium. 

The governor is currently Lord Changartla hiMriyatlaku, of the Golden 
Bough clan. He is 43 years old, has 2 wives (one of whom he mistreats, 
while pampering the other one). He has 3 sons and 1 daughter, all 
adults with jobs of their own.  Lord Changartla is suave, 
sophisticated, loves dogs (racing, hunting, breeding), and high-culture 
entertainments like epic poetry, drama, mime, etc. He is also as 
crooked as the day is long: cheats on taxes and contracts, takes 
bribes, hires hitmen, ruthlessly grabs property, and is generally not a 
nice person. He is no favourite of Avanthar, but rather almost an exile 
from the court at Bey Su. The current Emperor, Dhich'une, hardly knows 
he exists. As long as reports and taxes come in, Dhich'une ignores him. 
One day he may get what he so richly deserves: a one-way trip in a 
small boat into the Msumtel Swamps...

Isle of Ganga

Important Personages:
Governor: Lord ? hiMashkema

Lady Su’esa hiMashkema, Aridani daughter of the governor.  She 
successfully pressured her father and Avanthar to re-establish the 
historic Legion of the 12 Paths of Avanthe, 9th Imperial Slingers.

Lady Sea hiVaishu, General of the Legion of the 12 Paths of Avanthe, 
priestess of Avanthe, of the Clan of the Blue Girdle.

Lord Verussa hiNakkolel, Mriyan of Temple of Qon, General of the Legion 
of Defense Against Evil, 7th Imperial Medium Infantry, of Green 
Malachite Clan.

Noted Clans:
Green Malachite

Military Forces:

Since the fall of Ganga, there have been few military forces on Ganga.  
There are currently two legions, one off fighting in the Yan Koryani 
war, the other serving as city guards in Jakalla and Tumissa.  The only 
forces actually on Ganga are some ships from the 1st Imperial Marines.

The Legion of Defense Against Evil, 27th Imperial Medium Infantry was 
formed by Gyesmu in 2019 A.S. from a Qon temple guard unit.  Since this 
sect has little military inclination, the legion has never received 
much support.  Though it claims Engsvanyali ancestry, no direct 
connections can be traced.  It hasn’t been on Ganga for a long time, 
serving instead as city guards in Jakalla and now Tumissa.  The General 
is Lord Verussa niNakkolel, Mriyan of the Temple of Qon.  He is from 
Ganga, Green Malachite Clan, and takes recruits only from Ganga.  The 
Legion has only 8 Cohorts, which seems to be all that Ganga can 
provide. 

The Legion of the 12 Paths of Avanthe, 9th Imperial Slingers, has only 
just been reestablished due to pressure from the Aridani daughter of 
the governor.  The ancient treasury of the Temple of Avanthe was used 
to recruit and arm the 9 Aridani Cohorts that currently compose the 
Legion. It is based in Petris Layoda but went off to fight near Khirgar 
at the foot of the Atkolel Heights. 

Misc

It should be noted that the current High Princeps of the Temple of 
Thumis, Gamalu hiBeshyene, was born at Petris Layoda on Ganga in 2319 
A.S.  He was raised a minor noble’s son, studied astronomy and 
navigation and served as a merchant sea captain, not uncommon for the 
seafaring folk of the southern isles.  He came to Jakalla in 2344 and 
from there became involved with the Temple of Thumis. 


The View From Watch Towers

This comes from a post on the Blue Room:

How far you can see on Tekumel:

A quickish calculation shows me that the distance to the horizon for a 
viewer at height, h, on a world of diameter D is given by,

	Horizon, H  = SQRT[ h D ] = SQRT[h] * SQRT[D]

SQRT[D] you can just calculate once for the world.

This gives the distance to the furthest point on the surface of a 
sphere you can see from height h above it assuming that visibility is 
perfect. Clearly as D increases and the surface of the world tends 
towards being a flat plane the distance to the horizon increases.

Now the Earth's diameter is roughly 12,752km, Tekumel's is 20,838km. 
This means that the distance to the horizon is ~28% greater on Tekumel 
than on Earth.

Plugging some numbers into the equation,
For a human [eyes ~ 2m from ground] H = 6455m [~4.8 Tsan]

For someone on a cliff top [ say 66m above sea level] H = 37085m 
[~27.75 Tsan]

This can be quickly used to give the useful field of view of a 
watchtower or lighthouse.  Remember for two ships spotting each other 
at sea, lookouts in crow's nests see each other as just as they both 
become visible over the horizon which is a point half way between them 
limiting their sight.  For spotting land from the sea, the horizon 
calculated for the top of a mountain tells you how far to sea that 
mountain can be seen. This will happen before the coast comes into view 
assuming that visibility is good. Explorers on Earth could see 
mountains in Africa like this before anyone {European} had actually 
reached them.

In compiling my report on Vra I have come across the following
questions and answers.  They were in a document acquired from the 
Temple of Ketengku many years ago which I found secreted in a cubby 
hole in our library.  So best keep quiet about it! 

How Tall is Old Women Watcher?
	Wise Bashan, Scholar of the Temple of Thumis in the City of Vra, 
tells us that the Old Women Watcher rises 2790 dhaiba above the level 
of the sea. That is 30 dhaiba for every aspect of Lady Avanthe that 
separates the peak of Old Women Watcher from the body of our Lady 
Avanthe, Mistress of the Sea. [Seems an oddly convenient number to me! 
NhS]

How tall is this? 
	Old Women Watcher is tall enough so that ships setting out on the 
trip from the western trip of Burru Isle towards the Isle of Vra know 
that they are halfway to the Isle when on a clear day they see the 
mountain in the distance.
	Old women watcher is tall enough that she can just be seen in the 
distance from the high ground on the north of the island.  Thus it is 
true that Old Women Watcher keeps a good eye on all of Vra and much of 
the surrounding sea.

Nikun hiSayodla
[ PS. 2790 dhaiba is 3720m. In comparison - Mt Etna is 3323m and Mauna 
Kea is 4205m. Two mountains on islands that I thought to look up.] 


  All geography information is from The Blue Room posts 184, 185, 187,191,195,201, 1054
  Swords and Glory, Vol 1, p. 3
  Engsvan hla Ganga (Netbook), p. 13.
  Swords and Glory, p. 7
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious (Netbook version), p. 70
  The Blue Room (MAR Barker)
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 70
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 50
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 63
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, pp. 64, 25, 77, 80, 60, 68, 21, 24, 88
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, pp. 57-58, 70
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 58
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 71
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 31
  Engsvan hla Ganga, p. 2
  Swords and Glory, pp. 9-10
  Engsvan hla Ganga, p. 32
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 37
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 71
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 100
  Engsvan hla Ganga, p. 25
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 85
  All cultural information is from The Blue Room posts 184, 185, 187, 191, 195, 201
  Mitlanyal (pre-publication copy), p. 95.
  Swords and Glory, p. 83.
  Swords and Glory, p. 97.
  Swords and Glory, p. 121; Mitlanyal p. 35
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 31
  Mitlanyal, p. 21
  Swords and Glory, p. 82.
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 58
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 81
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 82
  Eye of All-Seeing Wonder, p. 14 (Barker interview)
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 31.
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 54.
  Deeds of the Ever-Glorious, p. 72
  Mitlanyal, p. 66.
