Date: Sun, 18 Jan 1998 22:50:09 -0600 (CST)From: The Blue Room Mailing List <blueroom@prin.edu>To: george.hammond@umich.eduSubject: Message 640: The Disposer of Meku[Moderator's Note:  James Snead asks about the Disposer of Meku.             ]>While all Tsolyanu is breathing a sigh of relief over the recent>suspension of hostilities, I remain confused about a key event which>precipitated the civil war, vis. the destruction of the temples of the>Dark Trinity in Meku by the Disposer.  As I understand it, the Clan of the>Iron Helm, from which the Disposer is traditionally selected, is firmly>associated with the very temples which were destroyed.  Can this be>clarified?  Who was the Disposer, and where in all Meku did he find>troops to conduct the act?  And what of the famous and ancient temple of>Wuru, also in that city?The Disposer's full name is: Zu'ine hiVazhu. (accent of the "zu-" and uponthe "-zhu"). He is somewhat of a maverick: he is a fanatical Chitengworshipper, although many (not all!) of his clan favour Hru'u, Ksarul, ortheir Cohorts. He was apparently just waiting for an opportunity to turnthe Sarku temple into hot ashes. Things got out of hand, and the Hru'u andKsarul temples (which stand nearby) went with it. Most of this has sincebeen repaired, although the Sarku temple is now closed -- Prince Mirusiya'sorders. The Disposer is youngish, about 48, thin, gaunt, and dark-visagedwith a spade beard. He is not known for his kindness but rather for hisoccasional losses of temper, and the excesses he is then likely to commit.He used his palace guard to start the rioting against the dark temples,then paid the city guards, the tomb police, and other units with "loot" toencourage them to join in. He's been carefully selecting these people for anumber of years, and they did just as he asked. The temple of Wuru is alittle farther down the street, and it was not touched, although itremained under guard for a couple of weeks.Rumour has it that the Disposer is on his way to Avanthar to pay respectsto the new Emperor. He had not yet arrived by last week, but a suite insidethe fortress is being cleared for him. Should be interesting. Mirusiyadoesn't particularly like him -- he's too single-mindedly fanatic to suitthe new Emperor!My advice: do not cross this msn!Regards,Phil----