Date: Sun, 21 Dec 1997 15:25:14 -0600 (CST)From: The Blue Room Mailing List <blueroom@prin.edu>To: george.hammond@umich.eduSubject: Message 602: Current Events in Tsolyanu[Moderator's Note:  Dateline, Usenanu...  Bob Alberti (and the Professor)  ][                   have provided some info about the various goings on in ][                   the Tsolyani Empire.  I also spoke with the Professor  ][                   and he gave me some more details I have added to the   ][                   end of this post.                                      ]> = Professor Barker's comments  = Bob's comments>I hope that Bob Alberti will elaborate on his posting to the newsgroup. I>rarely look there myself, preferring the Blue Room. I would also prefer>that correspondents write or copy messages to both places, if the posting>has content for Tekumel fans. I never would have known that Bob had already>broken the story except for a correspondent who excitedly telephoned me. I>was rather hoping to break it myself on the Blue Room.My only mention was made on Friday the 12th (i.e. nine days ago, not yesterday).It read, in total, "Oh, by the way, Dhich'une is no longer Emperor."At that time, the Thursday night gaming party had just been dropped offon the Plane of the Buffalo, and I truly didn't know any more than that.For all I knew, he was going to head back and reclaim the throne, and Iknew neither the date nor his successor.>It is true: With Vimuhla's finest warriors pouring up out of the cellars of>Avanthar, the Emperor decided to leave. With the aid of a sorceress, the>Lady Sarvodaya Di'ela,Oh ho!  I didn't know THAT.  I mean, I had guessed it was one of her ships,but I didn't know she was actively assisting him in any way.>he set off in one of her airships and transferred to>another Plane, then on to still other Planes.I comfort my self with the delusion that I at least inconvenienced him fora few minutes...>He thus lives,(after a fashion...)>together with>some of his retainers, but the Imperium is no longer his. The Empire is now>in a state of elation and wild flux. The capital is in the hands of>Mirusiya and Taksuru. The latter has already announced that he will>probably resign the Gold and work as Mirusiya's righthand man. Rereshqala>has also stated that he wants only the prosperity of the Empire, and he is>too old and sedentary to do much more. The saddest thing was the death of>Prince Eselne -- lowly dysentary brought him down. Princess Ma'in is still>in Tumissa, where she holds court and wishes she were younger and more in>demand. There will be a Kolumejalim, of course, and there may be some>surprises.Here is what little I can add to that.  First off, Chris, make sure if the Professor wants to break something more formal than this redirected-private-message that he has a chance to do so:  I don't want to upstage him![Moderator's Note:  Nope.  This was fine by him.                             ]Our hapless group of low-circle adventurers travelled under the lovingguidance of experienced rapscallion Captain Harchar and his trusty sidekickSwordswinger (his partner Staffswinger having met an unkind fate some monthsbefore). We were cruising the oceans of the far side of Tekumel in a ship ofthe Ancients, given into our bumbling care by some annoyed Wizards from theCollege at the End of Time and certain Guardians of Ancient Places who hadwished too hasten our departure from their domain.One of our party, a Sarku-worshippping crossbowman named Shemesh, had unbeknownst to the rest of us been granted certain favors and charges byhighly-placed representatives of his Worm Lord on this side of the globe.So when we sailed into an amazing harbor, accessable only via a largetunnel carved through a moutain's roots, Shemesh was in position to servehis waiting masters.He disembarked and returned later with the tallest Chima we had ever seen,explaining that this worthy knew how to operate our Ship of the Ancients.No sooner had the Chima touched the controls than the Ship vaulted intothe heavens, and for a day we roared along in air too thin to breathe.When we descended the Chima was gone, and a hirstute human was commandingthe helm.  We descended by night, and were surprised to see a tall tower loom out of the darkness.  Peering over the side, we could see nothingbelow the ship but darkness.  A gangway was extended from an openingjust beneath the corbelled roof of this tower, and a party of soldiersquickly secured the main deck.  Our surprise at these activities wasincreased when their torches lit the darkness sufficiently to reveal the gleam of blue and gold armor, and we heard our native Tsolyani beingspoken for the first time in months.  We were somewhere in Tsolyanu!Then further persons boarded, some wearing purple robes which were notthose of the Temple of Hru'u, others gesticulating orders mutely.  Still,I did not catch on, because I am thick.Finally a young man boarded, accompanied by several elder gentlemen withthe air of wizardry about them.  Finally it dawned on me (it was alreadynoon for the rest of the party of course) who these people were!  They were the Emperor Himself, Dhich'une Tlakotani, as well as the wizards Vridekka,and our sometime-Chima pilot Jayargo.Certain things happened very quickly thereafter.  First we heard shoutsand cries from below, where now we could see distantly the torches of troops battling at what must be the base of the Golden Tower of Avanthar.We were at first ignored by the guards, and one of our party managed tosneak into the engine room with an Eye of Disjection and fired it into the engines.  When he woke up to find himself capable of still moving, theVimuhla worshipper picked up the Eye, crawled over to the gaping wound inthe side of the engine, stuck his arm inside, and fired it again.Quick heal spells preserved Achumel's life, but we were locked in a cabinas proof against further mischief while Lord Jayargo initiated repairs to the engine.  He was successful, and we did not smash into the ground.Unfortunately, the guards then decided that they wanted some fun, and the two women in the party were directed by Shemesh into the galley andthere abused.  One woman sneaked away through the kitchen into the holdwith the aid of the brave Chef of Avanthe.  There she dug through themiscellaneous cargo until she found a device which, when she activatedit, produced a grid of blue lines and incidentally shifted the shipover to the Plane of the Buffalo.The Plane of the Buffalo is a "nearby" plane to that of Tekumel (while itmay be "distant" in Inter-planar terms, it is a frequent first stop ininterplanar travel).  It is a dominion of the Silver Suits, servitors ofthe Pariah Deities so-called for their full-body silver armor.  It iscomprised mainly of broad savannahs of golden grass traversed by mighty"buffalo" (no real relation) about the size of a small Chlen.  These herdscan stretch from horizon to horizon and are inexorable in their stampedes.Annoyed with us, the former Emperor ordered us put off about five Tsanahead of one such herd, and the ship departed.  We were, as the saying goes, screwed.  The depths of our screwedness can be illustrated by thecheerful fact that at least it didn't matter that neither of the sorcerorsin the party had the Visitations of Other Planes spell necessary to escapethis plane, because spellcasting doesn't work there.The party spent a nasty night dodging through a miles-wide herd of elephantinebuffalo in the darkness of a driving rainstorm.The next day, as the straggling buffalo passed, another airship arrived andwe boarded.  It turned out that this was a nature-study tour from the domainof the Silver Suits, out to observe the herd.  I'll skip much of what occuredhere except to say that they were much more polite than a lot of TsolyaniI've met, and after an exchange of sexual favors with the Captain of thisvessel, he agreed to detour long enough to drop us off at home.We arrived in Bey Su in the modern era, apparently only a couple of daysafter we left.  This being interplanar travel, we could have arrived duringthe reign of the Fishermen Kings, so we were all quite happy.  We learned that the Emperor had been deposed on the 18th of Dohala, 2368,by the allied forces of Prince Mirusiya and Prince Taksuru.  Prince Eselnehad apparently perished of a wasting illness during the summer of 2368,having never quite recovered from wounds suffered earlier in the civil strife.  The popular mood was good, except in and around the temples andclanhouses of those faithful to the deposed Emperor, some of which hadbeen destroyed by vengeful mobs.The taking of the Golden Tower was an unbelievable achievement, unparalleledin Tsolyani history.  Legendary general Karin Missum had been carried off the field, gravely wounded, and his condition remained unknown.It is generally expected that Prince Mirusiya has or will soon declare himselfregent until such time as a Kolumejalim can be held.  He seems to havearranged with his siblings that he shall be the only candidate, both Taksuru and Rereshqala pledging to renounce the Gold and work with the newEmperor.  Princesses Ma'in and Aremala could not hope to prevail over Mirusiya, and of poor Prince Surundano nothing has been heard (althoughseveral have suggested that the Imperial Heirs should pitch in and sendhim a nice fruit basket.)  Prince Mridobu remains missing and assumed dead.Eselne's former general Kettukal has retreated to Paya Gupa with his troops,and is not expected to perpetuate the civil strife without an Imperialsponsor.  The last holdouts of Prince Dhich'une's troops were defeated in Thri'il only recently.The date is now 29 Dohala 2368, and all of Usenanu is preparing for a particularly festive Intercalary Day celebration.  The only lingeringdoubts remain in the minds of our party, who are the only ones on Tekumel(aside, one assumes, Mirusiya himself) who know that Prince Dhich'une remains alive (or whatever) and active, guarded and supported by the dreadallies who helped him seize the throne.----------------Some more news from conversations I have had with Phil over the last day orso.  These are my impressions.  Don't attribute them to anyone else.  :)Karin Missum has been moved down to Bey Su, and is under the care of the Healing Sorcerors there.  No word yet on his condition.  Mirusiya is coldly grim about his victory.  He desperately wants Dhich'une'shead.  The awful part of this is that when there is a Kolumejalim, and ifsomeone hasn't killed Dhich'une, he would be able to participate.  Accordingto Tsolyani law, an heir cannot be kept from his right to participate.  But,if this law was so strictly kept, how did Dhich'une keep all the others fromgetting their fair chance Professor?The princesses Main and Aremalla are pretty much out of the picture as Bobstated.  Surundano is well, Surundano.   :)Rereshqala will probably be the Hig Provost of the Chancery at Avanthar, (the job held by Chaimira hiSsanmirin during Hirkane's rule.Taksuru will probably be given a special position, some type of Legate tothe Priesthoods.  Primarily to keep an Imperial eye closely on them.Poor Eselne did pass to the Paradises via a bout of dysentary.I asked about Mridobu, and the answers I got led me to the the following possible conclusions about Mridobu.1.  He's dead.2.  He's a Mrur or Shedra somewhere.3.  He's been Mind Barred, or effectively lobotomized.Phil led me to believe that he would be ineffective as a politician if, in fact, he was indeed alive.-----