Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1999 11:46:41 -0500 (CDT)From: The Blue Room Mailing List <blueroom@spectre.prin.edu>To: george.hammond@umich.eduSubject: Message 963: Elara hiVriddi[Moderator's Note:  Professor Barker lets us know what finally befell Elara ][                   hiVriddi.  James Snead asked this question.             ]>Perhaps the professor can clear up another loose end in recent history.>The famed rebel, Elara HiVriddi, who was allegedly frozen in stone and>hidden in the vaults of Avanthar more than two decades ago, is said to >have reappeared in Fasiltum at the beginning of the recent civil war>and so charmed Prince Mirusiya that he dallied in that city for some>time, to the detriment of the effort to unseat Dhich'une.   It later became>clear that "Elara" was a phantasm of some sort, sent by the the prince's>enemies.Yes, Mirusiya did search for Elara, immediately after his troops tookAvanthar. She had been put slightly "out of phase" with an Excellent RubyEye, and when this was undone, she emerged at the exact moment that she wasput into it long ago! She looked the same, felt the same -- everything. Itwas at this point that some of the last Sarku defenders of Avanthar managedto substitute a demon look-alike for her, putting the real Elara back intostasis in an unused part of Avanthar. Mirusiya brought her to Fasiltum,where "she" lived until her deception was found out by the redoubtableGeneral Karin Missum. (I vaguely recall that Arumel hiChankolel also hadsomething to do with revealing her). In any case, the Prince had lovedElara since he was a boy and she was a young woman active in the FreeFasiltum Movement. She returned to find Mirusiya older(and hence moresexually appealing) and more powerful and confident. He soon won her forhimself, married her, and took her into the Golden Tower with him, whereshe dwells in adored glory to this day.>Do we know any more about this episode, and what nefarious>forces were behind it?  And now that the Prince is enthroned in Avanthar,>has any effort been made to determine the real story of Elara's demise,>and whether there's a block of stone in the basement with her name on it?She never "died" -- that's the virtue of an Excellent Ruby Eye. It simplyfreezes a target in exactly the same state and position it was in when itwas "shot." The target remains immobile, no breath, no heartbeat, etc.surrounded by a very faint reddish glow. This apparently lasts nearlyforever. Once, I recall the Harbourmaster of Jakalla pulled a body out ofthe muck below the eastern docks to find that it was a perfectly preserved,living man whose enemies had ruby-eyed him and thrown him into the riverback in the times of Queen Nayari. He was of no great importance, however,and could tell scholars little about things they wanted to know (just asthe "iceman" mummy  of the Swiss/Austria border might not be able to shedmuch light on his contemporary cultures, literatures, etc.)Regards,Phil-----Date: Mon, 17 May 1999 10:23:58 -0500 (CDT)From: The Blue Room Mailing List <blueroom@spectre.prin.edu>To: george.hammond@umich.eduSubject: Message 983: More Elara hiVriddi[Moderator's Note:  Joe Zottola offers up some more tidbits on Elara hiVriddi.]To clarify a matter,.It was Arumel Hichankolel who revealed the false Elara..(with the help ofthe Temple of Vimuhla) The temple had implanted a device/spell into Arumelthat would dispel the illusion of Elara from the Demon..(with out Arumel'sknowledge) Arumel was brought before Murisiya & Elara and the Demon wasrevealed..The prince was whisked away & Karim  Missum dispatched theDemon...Arumel was put in the dungeon & later freed.....One more thing,Prince Mirusiya was not told of the reality of the false ElaraThe Temple of Vimuhla replaced the demon with one of their own in theappearance of Elara...The real Elara was not revealed untilshe entered the Golden Tower in the guise of Ijena the wife of ArumelHichankolel...-----