Date: Sun, 15 Feb 1998 01:24:45 -0600 (CST)From: The Blue Room Mailing List <blueroom@prin.edu>To: george.hammond@umich.eduSubject: Message 661: Tsolyanu's Civil War[Moderator's Note:  Phil answers further questions from Charlie on numerous ][                   facets of the recent civil war.                         ]I don't have all of the information you need because our playing group wasnot at the sites of the battles (except one, briefly). Mostly our gamerschose to operate in areas free of war and Sturm und Drang.>When did open warfare begin between Dhich'une' and the other contending>Tsolyani Princes ?There were rumblings almost within a couple of months after Dhich'une's"accession." The followers of both Mirusiya and Eselne complained bitterlythat they had been "invited" to a Kolumejalim that they could not attendbecause it was so far away -- Mirusiya was just coming home from TlekuMiriya, and Eselne was in northwestern Yan Kor and Pijjena. I can't recall,but I think the first battles began inside of six months. Rereshqala joinedin later, when Dhich'une was on the point of seizing Jakalla.Bob Alberti: are you reading this? Please look at your journals and putdates in! I don't have them handy!>When did the Salarvyani and the Mu'ugs' invade ?The Salarvyani made an attempt to take Kerunan and the Kaija Protectorate.They almost took Jaikalor. They did hold Hundranu Rise for a while. TheGilraya Forests have practically belonged to the Salarvyani government ofKoyluga (and allied cities) for some time, although Tsolyanu claims them.The Mu'ugalavyani quickly occupied Pan Chaka and performed another massacreof Pachi Lei. They set up a puppet government in Butrus and occupiedneighbouring hamlets and agricultural regions. The Pachi Lei retreated intotheir forests, and many became landless refugees in southern Tsolyanu. TheRed Hats are rumoured to be packing up and heading for home, now thatMirusiya is in.>Who were the principal generals for the various princes, the late emperor and>the foreign forces ?Kettukal acted for Eselne. Karin Missum and a number of other officershelped Mirusiya. The new Ksarul candidate, Taksuru, was not a military man,and he thus put his forces (from Bey Su and environs) at Mirusiya'sdisposal. Rereshqala had a number of generals from the southern cities, butI don't know exactly who.>What legions and their foreign equivalents comprised the main striking forces>of the respective armies ?Can't answer this one; the situation kept changing, and the "mix" oflegions and officers did not seem to stay stable very long.>Was disease/starvation or combat the greater killer in the war- and by what>ratio ?The Empire had had a fairly good harvest just before the war, and mostcities and towns had granaries full of food. Supplies were dwindling down,however, and the war was about to get ugly when Mirusiya's forces brokethrough the northern precipice behind Avanthar and came up through the"basement." I doubt that more than a few people really starved, mostlyaround Purdimal and Bey Su, where there was heavy fighting betweenTaksuru's troops and Eselnes's -- and then between Mirusiya and Eselne.>What Tsolyani territory do the Salarvyani and Mu'ugs still control ?See above. The Red Hats made a concerted attempt to take Do Chaka, too, butthe "wild" Pe Choi of the forests hated them and stopped them cold. Theydid lay siege to Tumissa very briefly at the beginning of the war, but theycouldn't hold out so far from home, with their supply lines constantlyharrassed by Pe Choi and Tsolyani irregulars. As far as I know, thus,Mu'ugalavya still holds onto the remnants of its Pan Chake force, whileSalarvya has informally occupied the Gilraya Forests. The latter haveretreated out of Kaija and Kerunan.Emperor Mirusiya (he may take another throne-name soon) is weighing theodds of snatching part of Mu'ugalavya -- and/or some of western Salarvya.But he other problems:e.g. Yan Kor.>During what period was Baron Ald controlled by Dhich'une's faction ?From the time Dhich'une ascended the throne for about 3 months thereafter.The Baron did not appreciate having his "superior" plot to kill him! Hethus retired to Ke'er to take care of many little uprisings and defections,>What is the status of the Baron/Yan Kor now ?He is still legally the ruler of Yan Kor. He has been spending his timefighting, pleasing, cajoling, bribing, and threatening various local citygovernments, Last I heard, Eber and Rulla were quiet again, after nearlypulling loose from the "confederation.">What naval activity has there been so far ?Almosat none to speak of. The Governor of Penom had thought to bring shipsdown to support one or another faction in Jakalla, but they never did gothrough with it: too much risk of being cut off by other forces fromThayuri and Vra.>Thanks for the history.  My players may not always appreciate such>information, but it improves the scenarios I write for them dramatically.>- Steve Pisani-----