-Mark Daniels. The Blue Room Vol7#194  
List with references of Flora mentioned in the corpus of [MARB]

Aira grass (common anaesthetic found in high grassy areas, often brewed as a tea), PH67;  
Anje plant (common, fruit antidote), PH69;  
Arduro tree (Chayakku, NE Tekumel), PH69;  
Balur tree, SB#1.415;  
Chme tree, BEB57,81;  
Chr melon (Shenyu), SB#1.415,#1.421;  
Chral plant (Saa Allaqi, poison bulb root), PH68;  
Daichu tree (Chakan forests & Kurt hills), SB#1.415 & MoG9;  
Dele flower (Tsolei Isles, toxic, yellow buds), PH68;  
Dlel plum (grows on low tree in the North), SB#1.415, PH67, BEB10 & 70;  
Dmi fruit (root used for sugar), SB#1.415;  
Dmoz fruit (disgusting, grown by Pachi Lei), SB#1.415;  
Dna grain, SB#1.415, PH66 & BEB70;  
Ebzal tree (soaring: Pan Chaka & Gilraya), SB#1.414,#1.421;  
Firya reed (common, used for paper & cloth), SB#1.415;  
Food of the Ssu (poisonous, Suchel Head, Mssumtel Bay), SB#1.414, PH68 &129;  
Fssa plant (Shenyu), PH67; Gain wheat (the north), SB#1.415, PH66 & 67;  
Giyu flowers, BEB69 & 82; Gse tree (Shenyu), SB#1.414;  
Gudru plant (used for silk), SB#1.415;  
Hnequ weed (narcotic), PH67;  
Hreqa fruit (black), MoG187;  
Jutl tree (Tlashte, Livyanu), BEB33;  
Ka flower (a yard diameter: Mmorcha & Nmatursha), SB#1.414;  
Kao squash, MoG187;  
Khapa cactus (Milumanaya, fruit antidote), PH69;  
Las plant (common, leaves antidote), PH69;  
Lisut-root, SB, MoG. Not sure of the pages. Genetically modified plant, naturally grows everywhere. Birthcontrol.  
Mash tree (tall, western Tsolyanu, golden fruit), SB#1.415, PH67;  
Mmuokh tree (Pachi Lei eat bark) PH67;  
Nalum vines (common, grape-like), SB#1.415, PH66;  
Ngosh tree (assoc. w. Ksarul & Thumis), BEB30,68,72;  
O Ti plant (N. Livyanu, leaves antidote), PH69;  
Onqe beans (common, emetic), PH69;  
Onumish plant (Mu'ugalavya, toxic leaves), PH68;  
Osrudha plant (S. Mu'ugalavya), BEB33,65;  
Ruqqa plant (E.Yan Kor & SA), SB#1.415;  
Ryshe Fibre (liana?), BEB72;  
Seresh tree, SB#1.415;  
Shirva tubers, MoG187;  
Ssalan plant (central Tsolyanu, toxic root), PH68;  
Ssar tree (swamps of Ksarul), SB#1.414;  
Tiu tree (slender, black-needled conifers), SB#1.414, BEB54,69,81, PH66;  
Tlebaz plant (Livyanu, toxic leaves), PH68;  
Tsevu fruit (bitter, assoc. w. Ksarul/Thumis), BEB54;  
Tsimer tree, can't find refs, sorry!, probably from a novel;  
Urtse tree (broad-leafed deciduous tree of Salarvya), PH67;  
Vatlaz plant (Livyanu), BEB9,65;  
Ve'ezhib tree, BEB58;  
Vraoz rushes (S.Livayanu), SB#1.415;  
Vres tree (drooping & olive-drab), SB#1.415, BEB28,31,54, MoG9,43;  
Water cactus (sprawling & spiny, Haida Pakala), SB#1.414;  
Yafa rice (Tsolyanu,Livyanu,Salarvya), SB#1.415;  
Znalaz plant (Tlashte, Livyanu: toxic berries), PH68.

# Dangerous Plants of Tékumel
by Peter Huston
## Pallis Weeper

“Touching causes poison throw at –3 or death. If surprise there is a 1/6 chance of "bumping into" it.” - [http://www.tekumel.com/gaming_advDPOT.html](http://www.tekumel.com/gaming_advDPOT.html)  
5e. Weeping trees are characterized by soft, limp twigs, which may lead to a bent crown and pendulous branches that can cascade to the ground. When young the tree looks more like a shrub but will extend up and outwards. The area around them is commonly very wet to swampy, and will likely also have a number of dead creatures around or under it.  
If a character touches the tree, they must make a DC 14 Constitution save or be take 10d8 + 20 Poison damage.
### Plant One

Large pot surrounded by large leafy fronds. Entering area causes a saving throw versus poison. If failed character wanders around hallucinating for six turns then approaches the plant and goes to sleep. After an hour the character will be wrapped up by the large leaves. He/She will then lose 12 hit points a day. After he/she reaches –6 hits revification is impossible.

# Plant Two

This plant has many stems, At the end of each stem is a pointed kind of pod. One of the pods has 'shot its load' and has its pointed portion attached to the end of the pod by a long thread. There appears to be a central nod (which I later seem to refer to as the 'brain' of the plant) which shoots sticky pods out – each plant has a number of pods.  
D100 Roll # Pods Damage Range Hit Dice  
01-45 2-12 1-3 10 yards 1  
46-85 3-18 1-4 20 yards 2  
86-95 4-24 1-5 30 yards 3  
96-100 5-30 1-6 40 yards 4

In addition to central 'brain' and stalk hits, there are 4 hits per pod. After being hit by pods save 12 (on d20) to break loose from plant.