**HEX 4904**

This hex is mostly agricultural. The terrain slopes gently downward from the southeast and southwest to the north toward the Bay of Pijné. The land to the east of the bay tends to be slightly higher than that west of the bay.

**Bay of Pijné.** The Bay of Pigné is a southern bay of the Pentrútra Deeps bordering Pijéna, Yán Kór and Ghatón. The bay is shallow and is heavily fished by the villagers in the area. Extensive mudflats cover the osuthern portion of the bay, requiring almost continuous dredging to maintain a shipping channel to Pijnár. Massive teams of expendable slaves manually dredge the channel. Many are drowned or killed by vicious sea-life. The dredged material is used as fill for the sákbe roads.

**City of Pijnár.** ...<Orignal text from Northwest Frontier Gazette here> ...

During the winter season, strong storms sweeping south from the Pentrútra Deeps occasionally cause extensive flooding in the lower-lying sections of the city. The sákbe road to Tlálu also suffers damage from flooding and is in a near-constant state of repair.

The sákbe road to Tlálu is constructed of four rows of heavy timbers pounded deep into the soft ground. The lower level is only a meter above the ground, the second level about two meters, and the third level about 3 meters. A lattice of seaweed fibers is strung between the posts to form a basin into which the dredged fill mixed with dná-grain chaff is poured. Once the excess water evaporates the result is a reasonably sturdy, if somewhat dusty, road. Salts raising out of the seafloor mud form a white crust on the mud, giving the road its nickname, The White Way.

**River Virushéè**. ...<Orignal text from _Northwest Frontier Gazette_ here> ...

**Dléshku Castle.** ...<Orignal text from _Northwest Frontier Gazette_ here> ...

**Nüréng.** ...<Orignal text from _Northwest Frontier Gazette_ here> ...

**Lake Hashǘn.** ...<Orignal text from _Northwest Frontier Gazette_ here> ...

**Gachéngga.** ...<Orignal text from _Northwest Frontier Gazette_ here> ...

**Castle Aó-Féng.** Named from the small village nearby, this non-descript castle provides defense for the capital city of Pijnár.

**Fort Nikún.** The sákbe road fort is slightly better maintained then most Pijenáni castles, but that’s not saying much. Its lower level and drill field are often flodded in the winter when storms breach the sákbe road.

**Pijné Sentinel.** This ancient tower provides a clear view of the bay and the approaches to Pijnár. A small garrison stays here year round, and will light a signal fire if unknown warships are spotted in the bay.

**House of the Sumptuous Etlá.** A small serving house in this village serves the best etlá-cakes in the Five Empires. Well worth the time to visit.