The Blue Room Vol5#149
*Moderator's Note: Wow! Another of David Lemire's awesome articles on the different martial arts of Tekumel. Thanks a ton, David!* 
# Yanaz Mittlamu

This third in the series of Blue Room articles on Tekumelani martial arts explores the highly secret unarmed combat system taught in Livyanu, mysterious land of the dread Shadow Gods. Yanaz Mittlamu is taught in five principle styles, each similar to but also somewhat distinct from one another, by the temples of Qame'el, Kirrineb, Guodai, Ru'ungkano, and Kikumarsha. Only members of the Vru'uneb, that Livyani religious society charged with enforcing the policies of the theocracy, today receive instruction in the core techniques of Yanaz Mittlamu. Others, however, have through the years picked up certain basics of the system through diffusion down the security structure of Livyani society.

Yanaz Mittlamu means, literally, "hand of destiny"; and, as its meaning suggests, it is primarily a siezing and controlling art whose techniques cause agony, numbness, sudden loss of consciousness, and even death. At the hands of one Yanaz Mittlamu's masters, one is brought to his/ her final destiny -- be it arrest for later interrogation, torment, and sacrifice; or simply death. The emphasis in Livyani unarmed combat arts on close quarters striking, grappling, and take-downs, however, has developed only recently (at least by Livyani standards!). Two thousand years ago, before the region's many warring principalities were subsumed by the rise of Livyanu's monolithic and theocractic state, unarmed combat arts closely resembled a combination of Tsolyanu's two systems. Styles divided by geographic region rather than by religion, however. In the south and west, roughly below and beyond the Kanash, Li'uz, and Kapraz rivers, long range kick-oriented styles dominated. In the north and east, through the heart of Livyanu and across the Tlashte Heights, closer range strike-enter-grapple styles held sway. Once Livyanu as we now know it arose (under the semi-mythological Dumuz Melunez Chi'una), however, it was ordered that all unarmed combat arts be brought under the perview of the dire Vru'uneb. This had a profound effect. The styles were consolidated and those techniques least useful to the Vru'uneb were abandoned, while those techniques most helpful to the Vru'uneb and its multifarious missions were advanced and systematically improved. Many kicks were abandoned (only low-line, rapidfire, nerve destruction kicks remain). Several throws were dropped (especially those designed to send the opponent sailing away from the thrower). But almost all grappling skills designed to control or lock an opponent's joints, muscles, and tendons were retained, reviewed, and developed. Thus, two millenia later, Yanaz Mittlamu looks quite a bit different than its distant ancesters.

The purpose of Yanaz Mittlamu is to control and/or kill quickly. Its grappling skills are designed to lock an opponent's joints or to tear his muscles and tendons, destroy-ing his movement and his will to resist. Its kicks, strikes, and jabs are used to numb an opponent's limbs, make him lose consciousness, or even to kill him. All techniques cause extreme pain, attack nerves and arteries, and exploit human physiology with the precision of a high-circle surgeon. There are rumored to be over one-thousand Yanaz Mittlamu techniques. They fall into five categories: 1) dividing the muscle/tendon; 2) misplacing the bone; 3) sealing the breath; 4) sealing the blood; 5) attacking the nexus (i.e., nerve center). Each of the temples responsible for instruction in Yanaz Mittlamu specializes in one of these categories of techniques, but by no means exclusively. They all know a certain number of techniques in each category, enough to base and broaden their distinctive styles, but have advanced knowledge in only one or two.

Dividing muscles, misplacing bones, and stopping an opponent's breathing are relatively easy, external techniques which rely upon muscular strength, physical agility, and practice for success. The Temples of Guodai and Ru'ungkano specialize in these techniques. Techniques designed to collapse an opponent's lungs, explode internal arteries, destroy important nerve centers, or shock vital organs require a detailed knowledge of human anatomy, the theory and timing of internal and other-planar energies, and other esoteric sciences whose mastery takes years of patient application under qualified tutors. The Temples of Kirrineb, Kikumarsha, and Qame'el specialize in these rare, frightening techniques. Vru'uneb members chosen for instruction in Yanaz Mittlamu begin with the easier, external techniques usually, and advance to the more esoteric "internal" techniques only if they demonstrate physical talent, psychic ability, and honor, which in Livyanu means a total committment to the state and to the temples of the Shadow Gods. If everything goes well, a student of Yanaz Mittlamu moves from city to city, temple to temple, tutor to tutor as his/her mastery grows. Some continue learning throughout their whole lives; others reach a plateau and are then posted as espionage agents, interrogators, bodyguards, ritual tormentors etc., depending upon their particular skills.

Like both Hu'on and Dedaratl, Tsolyanu's unarmed combat arts, Yanaz Mittlamu tends to be executed with a circular motion. This conserves energy and enhances the element of surprise. Surprise is important. Only surprise guarantees accurate joint, bone, artery, and nexus attacks. Witnesses report that opponents often find themselves controlled before they even realize they've been set up or angled for a technique. Also like martial arts in Tsolyanu, training with and against weapons (i.e., weapon control/ disarming) is central to the teachings of Yanaz Mittlamu. The secret masters of Yanaz Mittlamu stress, in their teaching texts (which resemble ritual scriptures more than anything else), that versatility is essential to victory in combat. How one acts depends upon how one's opponent reacts.

Criminals against the laws of the Shadow Gods are desperate! They refuse to be controlled, so Vru'uneb officers and/or agents must adapt their Yanaz Mittlamu to fit the situation. Often they feint or strike their victims before applying a core Yanaz Mittlamu controlling technique. For example, a technique called "Arm Engulfs the Dragon's Neck" involves striking at an opponent's center. When this strike is blocked, the blocking wrist is grabbed and pulled so that both its shoulder and elbow strain against the puller's chest as the striking arm continues up, across, and around behind the opponent's neck. This seals his breath, tears his shoulder, and breaks his elbow. Another technique, called "Chi'inneb Extends Her Neck for Water" involves striking at an opponent's abdomen. When this punch is blocked, the right hand grabs the blocking wrist while the other arm snakes down under the elbow and then quickly reverses up and foreward, over the upper arm, locking the arm behind the opponent's back. The locked elbow is leveraged higher to increase pain or prevent counters. The left hand is then free to attack the near shoulder nexus, lift the victim's chin upward, tear his neck tendon, or grab his hair to knee smash his face. Sometimes angling a powerful or skilled opponent to apply a Yanaz Mittlamu control technique is impossible, in which case kicks and strikes, aimed at causing unconsciousness or even death, are used. These precision techniques are the most demanding and feared in all Livyanu.

Death blows which shock or destroy internal arteries and organs are only taught to those persons in whom the Temples of the Shadow Gods place incredible trust. A man can easily kill with one finger once he has mastered the skills of sealing the breath, sealing the blood, and attacking the nexus. These "advanced techniques" of Yanaz Mittlamu are taught in highly ceremonial fashion, with the student getting the feel of the nexus strikes or presses slowly, as though he were acting out some deeply religious drama (often elaborate costumes and jeweled masks are worn, so as to improve visual learning and remove mental blocks). Students recite ritual verses which contain key concepts written with Kenemuz, whose meanings provide insights into the deeper secrets of Yanaz Mittlamu. It is up to the student to interpret them correctly, however. Concepts such as "'ail", ascend, "shanz", break, and "'opu", seize, are examples. The Temples of Kirrineb, Kikumarsha, and Qame'el routinely dedicate several years when teaching these techniques; those of Guodai and Ru'ungkano spend relatively less time because their advanced techniques are "external" and therefore simpler. Students in all five temple-styles learn that there are four general methods for controlling a person: to numb a part of his body, to cause him to faint, to take away his breath, and to kill him. Numbing part of a person's body involves striking nerve centers, utilizing either external or internal power, causing paralysis and loss of function. Making a person faint from pain also involves striking nerve centers, but usually more vital ones closer to the spine, important organs, or the brain (sometimes fainting can be produced while tearing tendons and breaking bones, but only in cases of weak-willed individuals). Taking away a person's breath is done in either of two ways: externally by damaging his esophagus or carotid arteries (i.e., with a punch); internally by collapsing his lungs with a deep nexus attack. Infinite are the ways in which someone may kill a person: weapons, Onumish-poison placed beneath the fingernails, or the secret death strikes of Yanaz Mittlamu. These involve destroying internal organs through primary (the liver explodes), secondary (the brain dies after strikes to the temple burst blood vessels), and tertiary (the heart stops when a certain nexus lying along its meridian gets hit hard) modes of attack. All advanced techniques target four general areas of man's anatomy: the head, the spine, the nexus points, and the internal organs. These attacks may be either direct or indirect, and their effects immediate or delayed, depending on their target and the circulation of bioelectrical energy through the body.

Training methods for Yanaz Mittlamu's advanced techniques demand much from those who would master them; they must develop highly detailed esoteric knowledge and extremely powerful hands. Mind and body. The original theory for these methods derive from "Li'ob Mikkul Shirudanaz" (The Book of Becoming Shadow), which the Livyani claim was written 40,000 years ago. The practitioner must develop external penetration ability and internal power. The first step, however, is to strengthen the hands and fingers for striking with various weapons in a variety of forms (such as the Secret Sword Hand). There are five stages in strengthening the hands: finger push-ups, striking into kettles of raw beans, volcanic sand, and then iron filings, and developing concentration, accuracy, impulse power, and penetration. After extensive training a Yanaz Mittlamu master's fingers resemble thin steel rods moving at great speed; no wonder such persons cause extreme damage when hitting their target. Fantastic stories of Livyani assassins killing their victims with a touch become more realistic and less fantastic when one considers it often takes ten years to reach this level of proficiency.

The methods of developing internal power are too complex to be gone into here, but they are similar to those used in sorcerous acadamies for building psychic ability. They involve relaxed visualization leading to high mental focus, physical movements initiating the generation and concentration of energies, and then methods of channel-ling these energies into various techniques, not all of which are strikes necessarily. A different sort of energy is used to strike, to take down, and to grapple; another sort is used to sense or perceive an opponent's momentum. Highly skilled Yanaz Mittlamu practitioners can enter close combat in total darkness, sense their opponents' moves while masking their own, and deliver a death blow that destroys a nexus (the nerve center at the base of the throat?) with precision and ease. Directing energies along the line of an attack is a sure way to achieve deep bodily penetration; this is how internal organs are destroyed. The spell "Missile of Metallja", which launches a bolt of psychic force toward a target, is a phenomena related to the applications of internal power described above, but it requires a spell, is more powerful, and draws its energies partially from the Planes Beyond. In Yanaz Mittlamu, internal power extends at the same time external physical force is applied; it becomes instinctive and immediate and no spell or other-planar energies are required. Nor do metals adversely affect internal energies: one can wield steel weapons and still accomplish feats of martial ardor. The non-psychic can achieve nearly the same results with the right nexus attack, so Yanaz Mittlamu is an unarmed combat system available to nearly everyone. Athletes tend to concentrate on those techniques taught by the Temples of Guodai and Ru'ungkano. Esthetes tend toward those techniques taught by the Temples of Kirrineb, Kikumarsha, and Qame'el. Whichever one or combination of several styles a chosen agent of the Vru'uneb pursues, the greatest glory of the dread Gods of Shadow is served.