 
                            Tekumel Digest, Number 6
 
                            Saturday, July 13th 1991
 
            Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
                 Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
             FTP Archive site: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) 
                         in directory /pub/rgp/tekumel
 
Today's Topics:
 
                                    EPT items
                            AD & D rules for Tekumel
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date:    Tue, 9 Jul 1991 9:32:06 -0400 (EDT)
From: EJK5@JAGUAR.UCS.UOFS.EDU
Subject: EPT items

I have returned from ORIGINS and have good news to impart.
There are some EPT items out there!
The Book of Ebon Bindings has been released in new format.  It is now in a 
Black and Silver jacket and it is in standard (8.5 x 11) format, so no more
head-ache inducing micro-type to read!
The language guide and Deeds of the Ever Glorious are also available, and I
think the Monster guide will be out around either August or September.

------------------------------
 
Date: Sat, 13 Jul 91 17:57:12 CDT
From:ROYER@NYSPI.BITNET (Bob Dushay)
Subject: AD & D rules for Tekumel

Here are the AD&D rules for Tekumel:

AD&D 2nd Edition
Tekumel Supplement

Introduction: The Swords and Glory rules represent a considerable step forward
from the Empire of the Petal Throne (EPT) game. Unfortunately, in addition to
being incomplete, they proved to be clumsy in play (although I can't figure out
if this is due to some defect in the rules themselves or my unfamiliarity with
them). As a GM with little time for gaming, I was forced to find a system that
was easier to write adventures for and was faster in play.

AD&D represented a good compromise. Although AD&D has many flaws, it remains one
of the best known role-playing systems, boasts considerable flexibility, and is
close enough to the original Empire of the Petal Throne (EPT) rules to permit
simple conversions from EPT to the new format, saving a great deal of time. In
order to better preserve the flavor of Tekumel, however, the spell system from
Swords and Glory (S&G) was adopted with minor modifications mostly designed to
maintain play balance in an AD&D system.

The rules listed below are a simple attempt to provide a fast-moving, playable
system for our Tekumel adventures. They have been tested in only one game to
date. As might be expected, the combat system worked smoothly. The magic system
also seemed workable, although comparatively few spells were cast.

The rules depend heavily on the Swords and Glory game system, as indicated
above. Since I have no desire to imply that Professor Barker's work is my own, I
have attempted to remove all information found in the Swords and Glory books
from this edited version of my private rules booklet. Therefore, users of these
rules must have access to the following materials, in addition to AD&D, 2nd edi-
tion: Swords and Glory, Volumes 1 (The World of the Petal Throne) and 2 (Tekumel
Player's Handbook) and the Empire of the Petal Throne rulebook (for monsters and
treasures).

Obviously these rules will be far less workable if the user lacks these materi-
als. It is possible to use them without EPT, but the user will be little better
off than with the unmodified Swords & Glory (S&G) rules: they will lack the
handy lists of monsters and treasures. The user must then resort to his or her
imagination once again. On the other hand, if the user lacks the S&G books this
rules adaptation is lacking a magic system. See my notes at the end for how I
think the AD&D magic system might be adapted.

In addition, I must mention these rules are still under development. I have only
run one game so far (graduate school does put demands on a person!) and the
rules seemed to do what I wanted them to do, but I'm certain more tuning will be
needed. I don't consider them perfect, or even polished. I would appreciate
hearing playtest comments, or even about other rules systems used for Tekumel,
including anybody that uses the S&G rules.

The Rules:

Ability Scores: Roll for Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom, Dexterity, Constitu-
tion, Charisma, and Comeliness via whatever AD&D system is considered desire-
able. I prefer to use Method IV, where players roll 3d6 twelve times, and place
scores where desired, for the first six characteristics, and Comeliness is
rolled without a choice. Comeliness is added the 1st edition AD&D Unearthed
Arcana volume (p. 6), as Tekumel seems to require a physical appearance roll. Be
sure to incorporate the bonuses and penalties to Comeliness from Charisma.

Additional abilities to roll for: Psychic Ability (PA) and Psychic Reservoir
(PR) (needed for the S&G spell system) are rolled on d100s. I permit two rolls
for each characteristic, with the player choosing the higher of each pair for
the characteristic. The descriptions of Psychic Ability levels can be found in
the 2nd volume of S&G (Tekumel Player's Handbook, section 2.216, p. 5) with
minor modifications:

       01   Anti-psychic: Psychic Dampener 3m radius circle.
    02-49   Non-psychic: No spells can be cast.
    50-69   Non-psychic: May cast Ritual spells.
    70-90   Somewhat psychic: May use psychic spells.
    91-99   Highly psychic
      100   Abnormally psychic: Less energy needed, other benefits.

The third characteristic for spell casting is the Psychic Power Points total. As
in S&G, this is the sum of Psychic Ability, Psychic Reservoir, and the d100
equivalent of Intelligence. The latter is determined from the table below:

    3d6   1-100
    ___________
     3    00-01
     4    02-04
     5    05-08
     6    09-15
     7    16-25
     8    26-37
     9    38-49
    10    50-61
    11    62-73
    12    74-83
    13    84-90
    14    91-94
    15    95-97
    16       98
    17       99
    18      100

PC Races:

Friendly Races:

N'luss: +1 Str, -1 Int, -1 Dex, +2 Con, -1 Cha*, -5 PA, base AC 10, 1 HD.

Ahoggya: +2 Str, -1 Int, -2 Dex, +2 Con, -20 PA, base AC 6, 3 HD. Ahoggya have
no charisma for humans, but have normal charisma for other Ahoggya. Ahoggya have
two attacks per round (against different targets if they are man-sized, or they
may be against the same target if larger) at no penalty, and may have four
attacks per round if surrounded.

Hlaka: +1 Dex, -2 Cha*, base AC 10, 1 HD.

Pachi Lei: -1 Cha*, +10 PR, base AC 10, 1 HD. Pachi Lei can see in the dark, and
has a 30% chance of detecting ambushes, secret doors, etc. This rises to 50% if
the character is actively searching for these things.

Pe Choi: +1 Dex, -1 Con, +15 PA, +20 PR, base AC 11, 1 HD. Pe Choi get two
attacks per round against the same or different foes at a lesser penalty than
humans (see below), and they have excellent hearing permitting an 80% chance of
detecting secret doors and ambushes. This rises to 90% if the creature is
actively searching. They heal wounds at only 75% the human rate, regardless if
this is due to spell or rest.

Pygmy Folk: -1 Str, +2 Dex, -1 Con, -2 Cha*, base AC 11, 1/2 HD. They can see in
the dark, and have better hearing than the Pe Choi, although at short range.

Shen: +2 Str, -1 Int, -2 Dex, +2 Con, -2 Cha*, -10 PA, -20 PR, base AC 8, 3 HD.
Shen get an extra attack per round behind them by using their tail. Notice that
this is semi- involuntary, and friendly figures behind them may be struck.

Swamp Folk: +1 Con, No PA permitted, maximum PR 30, base AC 10, 1 HD. Swamp folk
are able to sense "wrongness", such as a change in direction, a slope, dimen-
sional nexus points, etc.

Tinaliya: -2 Str, +1 Int, +1 Dex, -1 Cha*, +15 PA, +20 PR, base AC 11, 1/2 HD.

Urunen: +1 Int, -1 Con, base AC 10, 1 HD.

Neutral Races:

Mihalli: +1 Str, +1 Int, +2 Dex, +1 Con, +30 PA, +50 PR, base AC 10, 1 HD. Can
change shape, humans have a 20% chance to recognize a Mihalli by its eyes.
Mihalli behavior is essentially random.

Nyagga: +2 Str, +1 Int, +2 Dex, -5 PA, -10 PR, base AC 8, 2 HD. Cannot remain
out of water for more than 3 hours, lose 50% of dexterity and movement ability
on land.

Inimical Races:

Hluss: +1 Dex, +10 PA, +10 PR, base AC 8, 2 HD. May use middle limbs as tearing
weapons and may attack with paralyzing sting in tail. They give off a sweet odor
detectable at 90-120 feet.

Hlutrgu: +1 Dex, +1 Con, -5 PR, base AC 10, 2 HD. Never check morale, disorgan-
ized fighters.

Shunned Ones: +2 Con, +20 PA, +15 PR, base AC 10, 2 HD. -3 to Con when they are
outside of their special atmosphere. Their stench is noticeable 180 feet away
and may cause a morale check in humans. They cannot survive more than a week
outside of their atmosphere.

Grey Ssu: +1 Str, +30 PA, +20 PR, base AC 10, 2 HD. Can see in the dark, 20% of
hypnotizing opponents instead of attacking (Save vs. paralysis, magical attack
adjustment from Wisdom applies) (Note that Ahoggya, Swamp Folk, and Tinaliya are
immune to this hypnosis). May attack twice per round at only -1 penalty on
second attack if they use their middle limbs. They are never lost underground.
If they have no leader, they will become demoralized and retreat.

Black Ssu: +3 Str, +1 Con, -2 Dex, -10 PA, -10 PR, base AC 8, 3 HD. Two attacks
per round without penalty. 10% chance per round of hypnotizing, +2 on opponents
saving throw. If they have no leader, they will retreat.

Notes: Races with an * after Charisma means this modification has no effect when
the character is dealing with others of the same species. Only Pe Choi use their
comeliness score when dealing with humans. The hit dice score indicates the
number of hit dice for first level characters. When characters attain a new
level, they get one full hit die normal to their character class.

Race and character class: There are limitations to the level a character may
attain, depending on their character class. The table below indicates these lim-
itations:

    Race         Max. Warrior Level   Max Sorcerer Level
    ____________________________________________________
    N'luss              12*                  5***
    Ahoggya             12*                  4****
    Hlaka               12                  12***
    Pachi Lei           12                  12
    Pe Choi             12                  12**
    Pygmy Folk           9                  12
    Shen                12*                  6
    Swamp Folk          12                    -
    Tinaliya            12                  12*
    Urunen              12                  12

*    A high prime requisite allows higher limits:

         Prime_Requisite   Maximum_Level
         _______________________________
              14-15             13
              16-17             14
                 18             15
                 19             16

**   Pe Choi sorcerers can add one to their maximum attainable level on the
     prime requisite increase table.

***  Hlaka sorcerers must be shamans.

**** Shamans may be one level higher than temple sorcerers.

Author's Notes: When possible, I attempted to balance non-human beings so that
there would be no real advantage to playing them, as per AD&D design philosophy.
As a GM who values a "realistic" portrayal of the society and the world, I
wanted to give players a reason to play as a human, even in a "hack and slash"
environment. I was not successful in this (the first party was entirely non-
human), although this could be due to the novelty of the races available.

Upper level limits on non-human character advancement is part of this design. In
addition, Tsolyani society seems to have very few non-humans in positions of
real power. It seems logical that Pe Choi or Tinaliya sorcerers should be able
to reach greater power than humans, yet Tsolyani attitudes should limit such
things.

Character Classes:

There are two character classes available to players: Warriors and Sorcerers.
There are no clerics to speak of. Since virtually all spell-casters in the Five
Empires are trained by the temples, and most are associated with the temples,
there is little reason to distinguish spell casting priests from the spell-
casting lay-priests.

Warriors: Must have a minimum strength of 9.

Sorcerers: Must fulfill requirements for spells as follows:

    Branch of Magic:      Intelligence   Psychic Ability   Pedhetl
    ______________________________________________________________
    Ritual Spells Only         11              50            60
    Psychic Spells Only        10              70            60
    Both Branches              12              80            60

Note that Sorcerers can wear armor and use melee weapons with some limitations.
See the section on Magic, below.

Priests: Players may choose to play a priest, if they combine it with another
character class. Hence, a priest may be a sorcerer-priest or a warrior-priest
(if a worshipper of a war deity). Such a character will have a better chance of
divine intervention, but most differences will be social and not relevant to the
underworld adventuring. This is a role- playing decision. Such characters are
constrained by their other class, and have all relevant advantages and limita-
tions due to that class. OTHER THAN THIS, NO SPLIT, MULTI-, OR DUAL CLASS CHAR-
ACTERS ARE PERMITTED. Note: If characters are warrior-priests or sorcerer-
priests, they may be permitted role-playing experience points for role-playing
in a priestly fashion. Be careful that this is not abused for the gaining of
undeserved experience points.

Alignment: Stability and Change only.

Proficiencies:

Non-Weapon Proficiencies: If non-weapon proficiencies are used, the S&G list
(section 2.239) is recommended.

Weapon Proficiencies: Use AD&D weapons proficiency rules, but specialization is
only permitted after a warrior reaches 6th level. [That is, 4 weapons at start,
and one every 3 levels thereafter for warriors, 1 weapon at start and one every
6 levels thereafter for sorcerers]. Warriors may obtain proficiency in any
weapon they choose. Sorcerers may only obtain proficiency in dagger, dart,
knife, sling, and staff. [Sorcerer-priests of the temples of Vimuhla, Chiteng,
Karakan, and Chegarra may be able to learn to use other weapons. It is also pos-
sible to permit club and mace use by sorcerers.] Sorcerers are permitted to try
to use any weapon they want, but they will pay the -5 non-proficiency penalty.

Author's Notes: The weapons specialization rule is one I use for standard AD&D
rules. The original purpose of weapon specialization was to make regular
fighters attractive to play relative to paladins, rangers, cavaliers, and bar-
barians. With the removal of these latter two classes from the 2nd edition AD&D
rules, the need for specialization was eliminated, yet the rule was kept. My
feeling is that it makes warriors too strong at the lower levels, but at the
mid-to high level range, keeps them on a par with the wizards.  However, Tekumel
monsters seem to be much tougher than the AD&D monsters, so perhaps warriors
should be permitted specialization at lower levels if the GM feels it is war-
ranted. I recommend against allowing low-level Shen or Ahoggya warriors to
choose this option, lest nobody play human warriors!

Weapons found on Tekumel are:

    Battle axe                   Javelin
    Blowgun (dart)               Knife
    Bow, Composite long          Morning star
    Bow, Composite short         Polearm (all but Mancatcher)
    Bow, short, self             Quarterstaff
    Bow, long, Seresh wood       Sling (bullet or stone)
    Club                         Spear
    Crossbow, hand (Shen only)   Staff Sling
    Crossbow, light              Sword, long
    Crossbow, heavy              Sword, scimitar
    Dagger                       Sword, short
    Dart                         Sword, two-handed
    "Footman's" Flail (large)    Warhammer
    "Footman's" Mace (large)
    "Horseman's" Flail (small)
    "Horseman's" Mace (small)

Other Tekumel weapons not found in AD&D

                        Weight                         Damage
    Weapon              (lbs)    Size   Type   Speed    S-M       L
    _________________________________________________________________
    Bola                   3      S      B       6      1-3      1-2
    Crossbow, Medium      10      M      P       8      1d4     1d4+1
    Flail, Two-handed     15      L      B      10     1d8+2     2d8
    Mace, Two-handed      15      L      B      10      1d10     1d8

Additional information for missle weapons:

    Weapon             ROF   Range:  S    M    L
    ____________________________________________
    Bola                1            2    4    6
    Crossbow, Medium    1            7   14   22

Bolas will entangle and fell an opponent unless the victim saves vs. breath
weapon. Entanglement will last for 1 round during which the victim has no dex-
terity bonuses and counts as "stunned and prone" (+4 to be hit). Bolas generally
only work on size M or smaller creatures, usually bipeds (unless legs necessary
for balance are close enough together). (Taken from DRAGON #61).

Steel piercing and slashing weapons are automatically +1 to hit and +1 damage
even before they are enchanted. Excellent steel piercing and slashing weapons
are +2 to hit and +2 damage before being enchanted. Any enchantments are added
on to this base. Bludgeon weapons don't get this bonus. If a steel bludgeon
weapon is enchanted, only the enchantment bonus is added: there is never any
bonus added to bludgeon weapons merely for being made of steel.

Armor:

    Armor Type                             AC Rating
    ________________________________________________
    None                                      10
    Shield only                                9
    Leather or padded armor                    8
    Leather or padded armor + shield           7
    Scale mail                                 6
    Scale mail + shield, chainmail             5
    Chainmail + shield, banded mail,
        lamellar armor                         4
    Banded mail, lamellar armor + shield       3

If the armor is made of steel, its armor class is improved by one; in effect, it
becomes +1 armor. Armor made of excellent steel is the equivalent of +2. These
bonuses apply to shields, also. Any enchantments added to the armor are added to
the +1, so that the weakest of enchanted armors (enchanted to +1 and made of
ordinary steel) is +2. Notice that Chlen- hide armor cannot be enchanted.

Use the following table to purchase armor using Swords and Glory's tables.

    Article           Price Range (in Kaitars)   Encumbrance
    ________________________________________________________
    Shield, Buckler             1-5                  2/4
    Small shield                5-14                 2/5
    Medium shield              10-19                 3/8
    Leather armor              32-104              4.5/13
    Scale mail                 69-100               11/32
    Chain mail                 90-122               11/32
    Banded mail               111-192               15/42

Padded armor is generally found in the extreme north, or it is used by peasants
who cannot afford any better. Leather armor is the equivalent of S&G light
infantry armor (light helmet, breastplate/pectoral, vambraces, and a leather
tunic). Scale and chain mail are common: they are made of scraps of Chlen hide.
Scale mail is more popular among the N'luss, while chainmail is more common in
the Five Empires. For simplicity, consider both as medium infantry armor (medium
helmet, gorget, breast and back plate, vambraces, and greaves). Lamellar armor
is not usually available for PC's: it will be found in Pechano, Yan Kor, and
eastern Salarvya. Banded armor is the equivalent of heavy infantry armor (heavy
helmet, gorget collar, breast and back plates, vambraces, greaves, mail kit,
tasses, and sabatons).

Obviously finer distinctions could be made as to degrees of protection, but to
simplify combat and the armor classes, the number of choices were reduced.  Note
that each armor assumes a helmet is worn. Characters may insist on wearing a
heavier, lighter, or no helmet. Lighter or heavier helmets make no difference in
combat, but no helmet means worsening armor class by one and could mean a lucky
hit to the head for more damage and possible stunning.

Nonhumans and Armor: Each race has its own kinds of armor. To simplify the game,
consider them as wearing human armor, but if the armor class of the armor they
wear is less than their own natural armor class, consider their armor class to
be 1 better than their natural armor class. Armor 2 or more classes below
natural armor class of the creature cannot be worn, with the exception of
shields.  Some races will not wear armor. They are: Hlaka, Hlutrgu, Nyagga,
Shunned Ones, and Grey Ssu. Of these races, the latter two will carry shields.

Combat: Generally AD&D rules. However, if a sorcerer casts an aimed spell, he or
she uses the "Priest" THAC0 rather than the Wizard THAC0. This is only true for
aimed spells: in any melee or missile combat, the sorcerer must use the usual
Wizard THAC0.

Magic:

Design Philosophy: The spell selection and method of casting provides much of
the flavor of a role-playing game. It was this feature that I was most anxious
to preserve from the S&G system. Fortunately, in the one sample play session so
far, the spell-casting rules seem to fit the AD&D combat structure fairly well.
I made only minor modifications to the S&G magic system to speed play and pro-
vide a better fit.

1.   S&G casting times were modified to fit the AD&D combat round. S&G turns
     become AD&D rounds, while S&G rounds become AD&D segments. Notice that S&G
     spell durations were not modified: an S&G turn stays an AD&D turn, and an
     S&G round stays an AD&D round.

2.   Sorcerers casting aimed spells must roll-to-hit as in S&G, but they use the
     Priest THAC0 of their level to give them a chance of actually hitting a
     target.

3.   Both S&G and AD&D generally allow some chance of spell failure. In AD&D,
     spells strike almost automatically, but the victim usually gets a saving
     throw. In S&G, the victim does not get to roll in his/her defense under
     most circumstances, but the sorcerer has multiple chances to fail in cast-
     ing the spell: there is a spell-failure roll, the sorcerer must roll to hit
     with an aimed spell, and the victim can take cover or protect themselves
     with their shields. AD&D combat is not usually as well-detailed as S&G com-
     bat to allow such detailed notice of cover, shield defense, and etc.

     I thought the S&G system was undesireable as it stood, because it requires
     greater attention to detail in combat, and because I felt the victims of
     the very powerful S&G spells would prefer to have their fates rest in their
     own saving rolls rather than in the to hit rolls of enemy sorcerers, often
     NPC's. To this end, I use the system below:

     a)   Sorcerer rolls for spell failure.

     b)   If the spell is an aimed spell, sorcerer rolls to hit, with the THAC0
          calculated as though the sorcerer were a priest, rather than a wizard.
          The casting range is divided into thirds to obtain short, medium, and
          long ranges, and the usual AD&D to hit modifications apply to the to
          hit roll. If the S&G spell description permits a spell-resistance
          roll, the victim is permitted a saving throw, otherwise the victim
          does not.

     c)   If the spell is areal, the victim gets a saving throw under most cir-
          cumstances, even if the S&G spell does not permit a spell-resistance
          roll.

4.   In AD&D, low level wizards are far weaker than equivalent level warriors.
     At some point, the balance of power shifts, and wizards become more power-
     ful than equivalently experienced warriors. S&G sorcerers are more powerful
     than AD&D wizards, especially at lower levels, due to their ability to cast
     more spells, and more variety of spells. I modified the spell-point system
     to limit lower-level sorcerers so that they would be weaker, to preserve
     play balance.

As in S&G, sorcerers expend Psychic Power Points to cast spells. Psychic Power
points are the sum of Psychic Reservoir and Psychic Ability, plus the d100
equivalent of their intelligence. (See the table under "ability scores".)

The "purchasing" of spells remains the same as in S&G, with a sorcerer character
having 25 points/level to "purchase" spells. The costs and levels of spells pur-
chasable are the same as in the Swords and Glory system, found in section 2.921.

Spell Casting: The limitations to spell-casters also remain unchanged from S&G,
i.e. freedom of movement, ability to see the intended target, carrying of metal,
and degree of armor worn. See section 2.933 in S&G. The spell-failure tables
(c.f. section 2.934) are also unchanged.

Spell Casting Costs: For sorcerers of 7th level or higher, the table found in
S&G, section 2.932, is used without modification. Lower level sorcerers must pay
higher costs to cast spells, as shown below:

                                       Caster Level
                     1         2         3         4        5        6
    Spell Level     P/R       P/R       P/R       P/R      P/R      P/R
    _____________________________________________________________________
    U1             90/80     90/80     70/65     50/45    40/35    30/25
    U2            170/160   110/100    90/80     60/55    50/45    40/35
    U3                      130/120   110/100    70/65    60/55    50/45
    U4                                130/120    90/80    70/65    60/55
    U5                                          110/100   90/80    70/65
    U6                                                             90/80
    U7                                                            110/100

    G1                      100/90     80/75     60/55    50/45    40/35
    G2                                100/90     70/65    60/55    50/45
    G3                                           80/75    70/65    60/55
    G4                                                             70/65

    T1                                100/95     80/75    70/65    60/55
    T2                                           90/85    80/75    70/65
    T3                                                             80/75

Psychic Power Points regeneration: As in S&G, section 2.935.

Healing Spells: If non-weapon proficiencies are used, then healing spells should
not be automatically effective, as there will be alternative methods of healing.
Use the normal chances of healing spell failure, as found in S&G description of
the spell 10, Healing. If non-weapon proficiencies are not used, healing spells
always work, as in AD&D.

Closing Notes:

As previously pointed out, if the potential user lacks access to the S&G rules
system, these rules will be of limited value. If the user wishes to use an AD&D
system without Swords and Glory, I recommend strongly that the "schools of
magic" rules be used. The DM should select which temples correspond to which
schools of magic, and not permit players to freely mix and match temples with
magical schools. Priest and Wizard spell tables might be combined, to permit the
full mix of spells to players, since virtually all sorcerers in the Five Empires
obtain their spells through the temples anyway. As mentioned above, this also
limits character classes. DMs wishing to have three character classes might make
some effort to separate ritual spells from psychic spells. Although the Tekumel
sourcebook makes little distinction between psychic and ritual sorcerers besides
the limitations on clothing, weapons, and armor, and the S&G rules makes pure
psychic or pure ritual sorcerers relatively rare compared to a sorcerer able to
use both psychic and ritual spells, it might be worth exploring a greater dis-
tinction between the two types. Perhaps the new psionics rules would permit this
kind of distinction. Care must be taken that a combined ritual/psychic sorcerer
under such a system not overpower the game, as they would be likely to do.

I hope somebody finds these rules useful, and I said at the beginning, I would
appreciate hearing any comments.

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
