 
                           Tekumel Digest, Number 21
 
                          Thursday, November 14th 1991
 
            Requests or comments: tekumel-request@ssdc.honeywell.com
                 Submissions: tekumel-digest@ssdc.honeywell.com
             FTP Archive site: eklektik.cs.pitt.edu (130.49.2.135) 
                         in directory /pub/rpg/tekumel
 
Today's Topics:
 
                        The beggar in the market says...
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Date: Sat, 9 Nov 1991 00:13:10 -0600
From: martin@gargoyle.uchicago.edu
Subject: The beggar in the market says...

Having climbed a bit out of the tar-pit of work, I offer a couple of
comments:

Re: the Ahoggya and Shen.  I had a message on this subject which evidently
was eaten a while back.  I'll try to reconstruct it.

The enmity between Ahoggya and Shen stems from an incident in the reign of
Hejjeka II "the Heretic" (1325-1340 AS).  Shen troops were used against
Salarvyani Ahoggya mercenaries; the Shen were defeated at Khum, and the
Ahoggya ate two or three captive cohorts of captives.  "As hateful as the
smoke of an Ahoggya cooking-fire" is a proverb in Shenyu.

However, the Ahoggya action was not an aberrant act with respect to Ahoggya
customs; evidently it was more or less normal.  Given the relatively casual
nature of the Ahoggya, I just cannot see them getting all upset about
eating the Shen or about the Shen being eternally pissed at them.  Since
Ahoggya are pretty much the big bruisers of the nonhumans anyway, they may
actually enjoy the fact that some Shen take it upon themselves to attack. 
But I would say they are more the recipients of the Shen's enmity rather
than providers of their own.

Moreover, this incident occured to Shen recruited by Tsolyanu.  The
incident probably entered the lore of the Tsolyani legions, and new Shen
recruits are surely indoctrinated in the "Ahoggya hate cult."  But what
about Shen serving in Mu'ugalavya or Livyanu?  Have they even heard the
story?  Maybe in rumors, but it's probably more the status of a legend than
a feud.

What about Shen from other egg-groups?  Given that they may already
experience biological hatred for the egg-group that was eaten, I doubt they
could get too worked up about some rumor from thousands of Tsan away that
some of their biological enemies got munched.  Moreover, how many Shen not
in the service of the Five Empires have even heard of an Ahoggya, much less
seen one?

This goes double on the Ahoggya side, for which the story, if known at all,
probably has the status of a fictional joke in the far eastern Ahoggya
enclaves, and is probably worth a belly laugh around the Ngu'uka pits in
southern Salarvya and Haida Pakala.

In sum, I doubt many Ahoggya feel active enmity to Shen, and that while
Shen of the eaten egg-group serving in Tsolyanu armies might be
anti-Ahoggya fanatics, the feeling probably attenuates rapidly in other
egg-groups and other nations.  Tsolyani commanders must still be careful
where they put the Shen, though.

Of course, while roaming Tsolyanu, many Shen will fall into this category. 
But a random Shen merchant, for example, might look upon an Ahoggya with
nothing more than vague distaste.

Re: Fu Shi'i.  At the end of Flamesong, while the Lorun woman and Fu Shi'i
decide to off the Baron's son, they have a conversation in which the Lorun
woman refers to those Fu Shi'i serves.  There's more to the reference, and
it seemed to be not too far a stretch to imagine that his masters are the
Hokun, about whom we have only rumors in published materials.

Re: TeX and Metafont.  Does anyone know of Metafont versions of the
Tekumelyani scripts?  Or does anyone have any Macintosh fonts?

Charles Martin // martin@cs.uchicago.edu // Ngangmaru brujutle!

 
-------------------------------------
 
The views expressed in Tekumel Digest
are those of the individual authors only.
 
*********************
End of Tekumel Digest
*********************
