Date: Sat, 27 Jun 1998 15:45:00 -0500 (CDT)
From: The Blue Room Mailing List <blueroom@spectre.prin.edu>
To: george.hammond@umich.edu
Subject: Message 748: Mirusiya and Tsolyanu Update

[Moderator's Note:  Rick Sauter asks about Mirusiya's throne name.  I take the]
[                   opportunity to ask the Professor to give us a news update ]
[                   about Tsolyanu.                                           ]

>Rick Sauter asks about Mirusiya.  It would probably be a good time to 
>summarize what is going on since the Kolumejalim.  Can you provide the 
>info?

Mirusiya is now esconced in the Golden Tower. (Bob Alberti: can you give an
exact date? Keith? Hello?) Prince Eselne had died of his wounds suffered in
Pijjena during the war and never completely healed. Prince Rereshqala
resigned the Gold and has become the High Chancellor in Avanthar. He spends
many boring hours trying to make sense of the Imperial bureaucracy when
he'd rather be enjoying his lovely wife, Sogai, or puttering with his
collection of antiquities.

Prince Taksuru also resigned the Gold to take on the richly rewarding (as
in gold and gems and goodies) task of being High Princeps of the Palace of
the Priesthoods. His functions are largely ceremonial, but he has
aspirations of becoming a scholar -- and possibly leaving Tsolyanu to
travel and explore.

Ma'in Kruthai lives in Tumissa, where she occasionally sees Princess
Arimala, the sculptress. Ma'in also gave up the Gold -- no sense fighting a
battle you are *sure* to lose -- but she has spurned Mirusiya's offers of
pleasant (and harmless) Imperial posts. She is currently having a fling
with a whole school of Hirilakte gladiators -- about 30 men, 8 women, and a
gaggle of Shen. She is beginning to age a bit -- "used" may be a better
term for it.

The nation is slowly getting its act together again. The forces of Lord
Sarku managed to spirit Dhich'une completely off the plane to one of the
alternate ones surrounding Tekumel, but he hopes to return one day. His
minions are working to undermine and replace the followers of other sects.
For example, Lord Sanjesh hiKirisaya, of Usenanu, returned home to find the
Sarku Priest Elon hiTlelsu had occupied his mansion and used magical
methods to make people think *he* was Sanjesh, Sanjesh' wife, A'is, was
replaced by Elon's female counterpart, Ke'ela, who may not be very human.
Elon went through a faked "conversion" over to the temple of Sarku and is
currently having a great hall for the worship of the Worm Lord built on
Sanjesh' land. Sanjesh himself felt he could not trust anybody and fled to
Hauma, where he now has a job in the Palace of the Realm there as a scribe,
writing copies of contracts and bureaucratic letters.

>We are wondering if the new Emperor has chosen his throne name yet?

He has, but there was some theological point about it that bothered his
advisors, and he now has opted for "The Flame Everlasting." Rereshqala
likes "The Flame Ascending," and others have made still other suggestions.

>Also, the Sakbe road that goes north from Jakalla to Usenanu crosses the
>Mssuma River at the great bend. Is this crossing a ferry system or bridge
>structure?  When the Sakbe roads cross larger rivers, what is the common
>method used? That is, can one usually assume a bridge or ferries?

There is a ferry system. The river is too wide to bridge, and every year
the inundation also moves the banks of the river one way or the other for
various distances, A bridge that is effective one year may have one or both
ends in the water away from the shore next year! The transport clans handle
caravan shipments, carts, travellers, and other traffic with some
efficiency. Just go down to the ferry quay on either side of the river, and
you'll be besieged with boatmen trying to be hired to take you across.
Don't pay more than 7-9 Hlash, however -- and don't pay the rascals on the
other bank who claim to be "river-crossing tax collectors!. Caravans and
carts do have to pay a tax, collected by officials who operate from small
buildings on the quays -- but travellers without commercial cargo pay
nothing.

Regards,

Phil
-----