{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs20 Pocket Universe Conversion TM\par
\par
These guidelines show how to convert d20 creatures for use with the Pocket Universe "2d10" game system.  Version 1.2, 01/08/2017.\line\line 1.0 Size Conversion\par
\par
d20 Size:\tab 2d10 Size Modifier:\par
Fine:\tab\tab +4\par
Diminutive\tab +3\par
Tiny\tab\tab +2\par
Small\tab\tab +1\line Medium\tab\tab none\par
Large\tab\tab -1\par
Huge\tab\tab -3\par
Gargantuan\tab -5\par
Colossal\tab -7\par
\par
2.0 Attribute Score Conversion\par
\par
Attribute Name Equivalents\line\line d20 Ability:\tab 2d10 Attribute:\par
(Str + Con)/2*\tab PHYS\par
Dex Score\tab DEFT\par
Int Score**\tab INTL\par
Wis Score\tab WILL\par
  *round up\par
  **For non-sentient creatures, change INTL to Instinct, INST.  Find the 2d10 Attribute Score equivalent, then add 4.  For example, a d20 creature with an Int of 2 would convert to a 2d10 creature with an INTL of 6, but if it is non-sentient, then this becomes INST of 10.  Instinct is used for alertness, hearing, scent perception, resisting trickery, etc. \line\line Attribute Score Equivalents\par
\par
d20 Ability\tab 2d10 Attribute\tab 2d20\tab\tab 2d10\tab 2d10\par
   Score:\tab    Score:\tab Modifier\tab\tab Value:\tab Roll:\par
1\tab\tab 5\tab\tab -5\tab\tab 3\tab 0/0/0\par
2-3\tab\tab 6\tab\tab -4\tab\tab 4\tab 0/0/1\par
4-5\tab\tab 7\tab\tab -3\tab\tab 5\tab 0/1/1\par
6-7\tab\tab 8\tab\tab -2\tab\tab 6\tab 1/1/1\par
8-9\tab\tab 9\tab\tab -1\tab\tab 8\tab 1/1/2\par
10-11\tab\tab 10\tab\tab 0\tab\tab 10\tab 1/2/3\par
12-14\tab\tab 11\tab\tab +1\tab\tab 13\tab 2/3/4\par
15-17\tab\tab 12\tab\tab +2\tab\tab 17\tab 2/4/6\par
18-20\tab\tab 13\tab\tab +3\tab\tab 22\tab 3/5/7\par
21-23\tab\tab 14\tab\tab +4\tab\tab 29\tab 4/6/8\par
24-26\tab\tab 15\tab\tab +5\tab\tab 37\tab 5/7/9\par
27-29\tab\tab 16\tab\tab +6\tab\tab 48\tab 6/8/10\par
30-32\tab\tab 17\tab\tab +7\tab\tab 63\tab 6/9/12\par
33-35\tab\tab 18\tab\tab +8\tab\tab 82\tab 7/10/13\par
36-38\tab\tab 19\tab\tab +9\tab\tab 106\tab 8/11/14\par
39-41\tab\tab 20\tab\tab +10\tab\tab 153\tab 9/12/15\par
42-44\tab\tab 21\tab\tab +11\tab\tab 232\tab 10/13/16\par
45-47\tab\tab 22\tab\tab +12\tab\tab 360\tab 11/14/17\par
48-50\tab\tab 23\tab\tab +13\tab\tab 569\tab 12/15/18\par
51-53\tab\tab 24\tab\tab +14\tab\tab 918\tab 12/16/20\par
54-56\tab\tab 25\tab\tab +15\tab\tab 1508\tab 13/17/21\par
\line 3.0 Hit Point Conversion\par
\par
The creature's new Hit Point total equals the Value of its PHYS score.  For example, a 2d10 creature with a 12 PHYS has 17 Hit Points.\par
\par
4.0 Initiative Conversion\par
\par
The creature's new Initiative equals the Roll for its DEFT score.  For example, a 2d10 creature with a 9 DEFT has an Initiative Roll of 1/1/2.\par
\par
If the creature has special abilities which add to its Initiative, add up those bonuses,a nd divide by 3 (rounding to the nearest whole number) to find its 2d10 Initiative bonus.  Increase its 2d10 Initiative Roll by that many levels.  For example,a creature with a special ability which adds 5 to its Initiative receives an increase of +2 levels to its 2d10 Initiative Roll.\par
\par
5.0 Move Conversion\par
\par
The creature's new Move score equals its d20 Speed divided by 5.  Round to the nearest whole number.\par
\par
6.0 Armor Conversion\par
\line Add up the creature's d20 Armor Class modifiers from natural and worn armor, not including shields.  Other bonuses that represent damage blocking (as opposed to evasion) also apply.  The two numbers for 2d10 Armor represent resistance to Physical and Energy damage.  If the creature has resistance or vulnerability to one or the other, adjust accordingly.  Convert the total using the table below:\par
\par
d20\tab 2d10\tab d20\tab 2d10\par
Armor:\tab Armor:\tab Armor:\tab Armor:\par
0\tab 0/0\tab 20\tab 7/5\par
1-2\tab 1/0\tab 21-22\tab 8/5\par
3-4\tab 1/0\tab 23\tab 8/6\par
5-6\tab 2/1\tab 24-25\tab 9/6\par
7-8\tab 3/2\tab 26\tab 10/6\par
9-10\tab 4/2\tab 27-28\tab 10/7\par
11-12\tab 4/3\tab 29-30\tab 11/7\line 13-14\tab 5/3\tab 31-33\tab 12/8\par
15\tab 5/4\tab 34\tab 13/8\par
16-17\tab 6/4\tab 35-36\tab 13/9\par
18\tab 7/4\tab 37-38\tab 14/9\par
19\tab 7/5\par
\par
7.0 Skill Conversion\par
\par
Change the names of each of the creature's listed d20 skills to the closest 2d10 equivalent.  If more than one of the creature's d20 skills converts to the same 2d10 skill, convert the one with the highest skill bonus and ignore the duplicates.  if the creature has d20 skills for which there is no 2d10 equivalent, create a 2d10 version of the d20 skill (selecting DEFT, INTL, or WILL as its base Attribute).\par
\par
The creature gets a score in each of its 2d10 skills equal to its core in the skill's base Attribute, +1.\line\line If the creature has racial bonuses or other special abilities which add to one of its skills, add up those bonuses and divide by 3 (rounding to the nearest whole number) to find its 2d10 skill bonus.  Increase its 2d10 skill score by that many points.\par
\par
8.0 Dodge Skill Conversion\par
\par
By default, every creature that is able to move has a 2d10 Dodge Skill equal to its DEFT score +1.\par
\par
9.0 Shield & Shield Skill Conversion\par
\par
If the creature's d20 Armor Class mentions a shield, then it carries the closeste 2d10 shield equivalent that it can hold comfortably according to its PHYS score.  It also gets a Shield Skill equal to its DEFT score +1.  The accuracy modifier and damage inflicted by each weapon varies:\par
\par
d10 Natural\tab 2d10 Hit\tab 2d10 Damage\par
 Weaponry:\tab Modifier:\tab Level Bonus\par
arm, crush,\tab +2\tab\tab none\par
tail, tentacle,\par
touch, wing\par
\par
bite, butt,\tab +1\tab\tab +1 level\par
claw, hoof,\par
rake, slam,\par
sting\par
\par
gore, pincer,\tab 0\tab\tab +2 levels\par
quills\par
\par
For weapons that the creature carries, find the closest 2d10 equivalent taht it can wield according to its PHYS score.  Heavier weapons can be wielded by creatures who have 2 hands free.\par
\par
11.0 Defense Conversion\par
\line 2d10 has three numbers for defining defenses: melee, missile, and magic (abbreviated as ME, MI, and MA).  Find the creature's best skills for melee and missile defense, and calculate its defenses.  For ME and MI, the number should include a bonus from the creature's 2d10 size modifier, as well as from any shield that it is carrying.\line\par
Add up any d20 Armor Class modifiers which represent evasion (as opposed to blocking), not including modifiers from size or Dex.  Divide the total by 3 (rounding to the nearest whole number) to find the creature's 2d10 defense bonus.  Increase its 2d10 defenses by that many points.\line\par
12.0  Damage Conversion\par
\par
Figure out the average damage points that the d20 roll would score, and multiply by ten.  Then use a calculator to find the square root of that total.  Round to the nearest whole number; that is the equivalent average damage in the 2d10 system.  For example, a 2d6 damage roll averages 7 points.  7 x 10 = 70.  The square root of 70  is 8.3666, so it converts to a 2d10 damage roll of 6/8/10.  Here are a few common examples:\line\line d20:\tab 2d10:\tab\tab d20:\tab 2d10:\line d4\tab 3/5/7\tab\tab d10\tab 5/7/9\par
d6\tab 4/6/8\tab\tab d12\tab 6/8/10\par
d8\tab 5/7/9\par
\line 13.0 Fine Tuning\par
\par
Look over the converted stats, and think about how it will function in actual play.  If necessary, you may add +1 or +2 to one or more of the creature's most crucial skills.  If its converted hit points are too low or too high, adjust its hits by +/- 1 or 2 PHYS levels to compensate.\line\line 14.0 Converting Other Abilities\line\line Many d20 abilities modify a creature's stats in ways this conversion system already accounts for.  Specific conversions of other special abilities fall outside the scope of this document.\par
\par
The following conversion notes will help you in converting other special abilities:\par
\line 14.1 Appearance\par
\par
If needed, convert the creature's d20 Cha Score to a 2d10 Appearance Modifier using the table in Section 2.0.\line\line 14.2 Saving Throw Conversion\par
\par
d20 Saving Throw\tab 2d10 Attribute\par
Fortitude\tab\tab PHYS\par
Reflex\tab\tab\tab DEFT\par
Will\tab\tab\tab WILL\par
\line A creature particularly resistant to magic may have an MA (MAgical Defense) modifier.  In the case of a vulnerability, this can be a bonus to being affected.\line\line 14.3 Miscellaneous Distances\line\line For ranges, and so on, divide d20 distances in feet by 5 to determine the equivalent distance in 2d10 movement spaces.\line\line 15.0  Example Creature\par
\par
Here is a completely made up set of stats using a stripped-down version of the d20 format, along with hte 2d10 conversion:\line\line SAND SCOURGE\par
\par
[[picture]]\line\line Small Elemental (Earth)\line Initiative; -1 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft.\par
AC: 16(+1 size, -1 Dex, +6 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +2 melee\par
Damage: Slam d8\par
Abilities: Str 12, Dex 8, Con 11, \line    Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 9\par
Skills: Climb +4, Escape Artist +5\par
   Spot +5\par
Sand Scourges are short, stocky creatures made of living sand.  They can stretch their arms up to 20 feet, and deliver a slam attack at that range.\line\line ---\line And now the converted 2d10 version:\line ---\line\line SAND SCOURGE\par
Sand Scourges are short, stocky creatures made of living sand.  \par
PHYS: 11\tab Hits: 13\par
DEFT: 9\tab Slam: 11-, 2/4/6\par
INTL: 10\tab Initiative: 1/1/2\par
WILL: 10\tab Move: 4\par
Armor: Sandstone, 2/1\line Skills: Climbing 10, Escape Artist 10,\par
   Search 11, Dodge 10, Slam 10\par
Melee Def: 1 Missile Def: 1\line Other:\par
Size Modifier: +1\par
Appearance Modifier: -1\line Sand Scourges can stretch their arms up to 4 movement spaces, and attack at that range.\line\line Pocket Universe is a trademark of UNIgames.  The d20 system is owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc.\par
}
 