{A magickally encrypted message to Kasikoi Mriyen hiTankolel, Commander, 
Bey Su Prefecture, Omnipotent Azure Legion}

To The Most Intrepid and Illustrious Kasikoi Mriyen hiTankolel, Greetings,

It is with some trepidation that this unworthy servant does make this
report.  By now, to be sure, you are apprised as to the manner of passing
of one Varsu hiMrityatlaku, of the Clan Golden Bough hereabouts.  Reports
received by this humble observer would seem to indicate that the device
used to accomplish this foul deed was identical to the seven such devices
just recently secured in a display case at the Imperial Hall of Relics at
Avanthar.   These seven were part of a cache liberated from beneath the
Soul of The World by an expedition led by this Varsu hiMrityatlaku a few
six-days past, in which this abased one had the duty of hired bodyguard (a
commission accepted based on my charge to observe all of significance that
occurs within the precincts of my watchful eye.)

During this expedition, the twelve men and women in our party discovered
some twenty-three of these pyramid shaped artifacts now of such notoriety.
Seven were sent to Avanthar immediately for study by the wise priests of
Thumis in that great city who are sympathetic to our causes.  Further,
twelve of these were crated up and returned to the Temple of Eternal
Knowing in Bey Su.  The rest lay yet undisturbed in the deep tsuru'umyal
beneath our feet, perforce, for as we exited the chamber with the first
load of crates, a foul trap of the Ancients did cause the chamber to
collapse, interring the remainder quite probably for all of time.  Four of
our number, porters of low birth and no consequence, were within the
chamber when it collapsed.  Your humble servant barely escaped serious
injury, being nearly within the door-frame of the chamber when the collapse
began.

As the nature and provenance of these objects may be of concern to your
worthy person in the near future, this lowly one does now report concerning
the chamber and environs wherein these were found.  Should a trip to this
location prove necessary for any reason, this one stands ready to guide you
with surety.  The chamber was of an hexagonal shape, with but one door set
in a wall facing to the rising sun (as best one might determine it).  The
ceiling was of a low height, scarely two man-heights tall, and was groined
by what appeared as timbers of some grayish looking wood.  The whole was
unremarkable, save for the inscriptions on the walls of the chamber,
written in a tongue with which this unworthy one is, alas, unfamiliar.
Long rows of spiky glyphs ran the whole of one wall and half of another,
leaving a blank space.  So the pattern of glyphs and blank spaces
continued, leaving two such blank spaces equidistant from the chamber door.

A crude dais of this grey wood was in the center of the chamber, and
thereupon were rested the pyramids.  It is unclear at this time whether one
of the remaining pyramids was resting on or acted as  trigger for the trap
which collapsed the roof.  At any rate, a low buzzing sound was felt within
the chamber, and it is by instinct alone that this unworthy one effected
his escape from certain death, for, upon sensing this, my own thoughts
turned immediately to finding and crossing the egress, dragging as many as
I could with me, these being a priestess of Ketengku, one Kayalen hiVriyen,
and my fellow legionnaire, Trinesh hiTankolel (who, if my memory serves
aright, is one of your distaff clan-cousins?) who was with me on this mission.

In view of the strange nature of these devices, it would seem prudent to
take precautions to ensure that none of these relics are left unguarded or
unwarded.  If I may be so bold, noble sir, might I suggest carefully
placing all of the seven in Avanthar in a tight fulat casket and under
strict guard until such time as we may better understand what possible
threat they may be to the life of our Glorious Seal Emperor (may His Life
be long, His praises uninterruped!).  Those in the Temple of Eternal
Knowing are already under the strictest of magickal wardings, and the
Temple Guard mount sentry duty within and without the chamber wherein they
are stored (well does Prior Harringashte remember the incidents concerning
certain Llyani relics entrusted to their care for the Emperor not so long
ago!).  Be sure, please, great Captain, that none who handle these relics
do so with bare hands!  Thus was Varsu hiMrityatlaku laid low!

The relics related to the death of this Varsu hiMrityatlaku are still
within the precincts of Clan Golden Bough, and might yield vital
information were they subjected to a rigorous examination by one of our
more puissant sorceror-priests.  For this reason, this humble one further
recommends that all such relics be impounded for study at once.

Should further consultation with this lowly observer be required, he
remains at your will and pleasure.  The Servitor who delivers this missive
has, of course, our full trust and confidence.

Your Humble Servant,
Tirrikamukoi Vayanamu hiKolelmu
{Field Operative, Bey Su Prefecture}