To the most illumined and erudite scholars,

I beseach your aid in uncovering the mystery of the death of my good friend,
Varsu hiMrityatlaku of Golden Bough.

Varsu hiMrityatlaku was laid low, after acquiring a gift from one of his
compatriots -- whom, unfortunately, none seem to know the identity of.  It
was a tradition, between us, that when unknown gifts were received the other
was always present.  Thus, should misfortune befall one of us, there was a
witness to the proceedings.  It was in this way that I was in attendence at
the death of my friend.

He was receiving a guest, on a cool spring night, and had requested that I
wait in my costumary spot: A hidden closet behind a thin wall, where I could
spy out through a set of peep-holes.  I could not see the guest, from where
I stood, nor could I determine anything of their voice save for a monotone
sound of it.

What I saw, was a set of large gloved hands place a colourful box upon the
desk of my friend.  Varsu spoke, as if with a long time ally, and I could
hear no subterfuge to his voice. At length, my friend bid the guest
farewell, without ever having used their name.

After some time, he glanced in my direction and smiled.  He seemed
unconcerned as he opened the box and there, sitting within, was a small
stone pyramid.  It was of three, smoothly joined, layers: Brown on the
bottom, sea green in the middle, and ivory or bone to form the point.

When it was free of the box, the edges split open, and I heard a humming
from the interior.  Like a dozen locusts all clinging to the inside walls,
the force of their wings brought vibration to the pyramid and the desk upon
which it sat.  The humming felt not with the ears but within the bones and
behind my teeth. Then the sides fell out, revealing that the pyramid itself
was a box containing yet another object.

The locusts or rather the single beetle, for that is all that was within
despite the noise, was shimmering gold in colour.  Solid, like the metal,
not some animal mimicry.  Its back plating folded, pleating sideways from
the middle, and as this moved aside, six glittering wings flicked out into
three spaced sets.  The thing's eight legs clawed at the air as the
transparent wings hummed and brought it aloft.

A smokey scent drifted through the room, as the beetle took wing.  Burnt
honey and dna, it was acrid; like the smell itself was yet another assault
upon the body.

Its four baleful blue eyes regarded my friend, and before either myself or
he could react, the thing was on him -- its eight limbs clinging to his
forehead.  A proboscus, an insectoid drill, then burrowed under his skin and
my friend's eyes rolled up as his expression mixed between pain and ecstacy.

Baleful blue eyes became green, as my friend lost conciousness.  Lifting
from his forehead, the thing shed its wings and vanished.  The transparent
remnants fluttering towards the ground with the last dying breath of my
dearest friend.

Since that time, I have done my best to uncover what this creature was or
who might have sent it.  What meager motes of information I have uncovered
are summarized below.

With the aid of good friends, I have tracked down records detailing the
appearance of the pyramids.  These records, only a few handfulsl in total,
are spaced through recorded time.  It appears that they are somehow related
to Tsamra, and Purdimal as the majority of the pyramids seem to have
appeared in those areas.  As well, I was able to find record of a few
sightings in the City of Sarku, and three travel logs indicating their
discovery in an ancient Salarvyani ruin.

A more recent entry indicated that a Lord Hejjeku hiKadesh had recently
acquired one, and if this is the case he should be warned.  If any amongst
you know of him, please pass along the danger he may be in by owning such an
object.  Sadly, I could find no notes on where this man could be found.

The most disturbing reference I found was from a century-old manuscript that
indicated that somewhere in the underworld beneath Bey Su there was a great
room.  Within this room were found hundreds upon hundreds of small,
tri-coloured stone pyramids.  It also states that a number of these were
removed and brought to the surface.  The idea of thousands of these insects
within the great city brings fear to my heart.  Perhaps fortunately, the
storeroom has long since been lost in the shifting passages.

Should any of this information lead any of you to further hints upon the
matter, I would be so very gracious if that should find its way to me.  He
was a great man, to both his clan and his friends.  I am sure that any aid
that leads to the cause, and perhaps further to restitution, would be well
rewarded.

Tsemel hiTlekune, Purple Gem Clan