<unaddressed>

I prostrate myself before you, and offer up these words to appease any anger
that might be brought by my presence.  I am worthless, for it is only these
words that hold scant important.

My worthless self -- as directed by your Noble, Honourable and Wise plan in
all things -- has been spending its waking days watching the aftermath of
the death of Varsu hiMrityatlaku, clan Golden Bough, follower of the
teachings of Thumis.

There shall be no repetition of that which this worthless scribe has already
sent to you, as your time is more precious than a thousand shields of iron.

The body of Varsu hiMrityatlaku has been prepared for viewing, and as such
this worm of a servant was able to secret the Sliver of Unending Existence
from beneath his skin.  The great wards and protections you cast did indeed
prevent it from being found when the clan's priests examined the body.

As to the remains of the Eight Arms of Repentant Transmission, the Six Hands
that Claw The Heavens are still in the possession of the clan of the Golden
Bough.  For this transgression this lowly creature deserves the greatest
punishments.  It is the sincerest hope of this servant that no thread can
lead back from there to your great and powerful personage.

To complete this missive, and hope that the information so contained
balances the time it took from your great and honourable self to read, some
few notes on the activites of Tsemel hiTlekune, Purple Gem Clan.

As is known in the clan of Purple Gem, Tsemel hiTlekune is a follower of
Dlamelish and has spent much time in the temples since the death of Varsu.
It is apparent that they were quite close, though details are as yet unknown
to this researcher.

This lowly worm did notice that this Tsemel hiTlekune has been in
correspondence with many learned scholars across Tsolyanu and beyond.  This
servant suggests, though in no way means to imply that such suggestions
should be followed, that Tsemel be watched further.

As always, your words reach my ears and my five selves obey with question or
thought to themself.

<unsigned, undated>

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

<unaddressed>

Great Lord and Master, you who hold my baletl with forefinger and thumb,

This worm regrets the time he takes from your contemplation, in order for
you to read this simple missive.

Disturbing news has come to me.  A richely dressed noble lord, who wore the
colours of White Crystal and the temple of Chiteng, arrived at the doors to
the clanhouse of Golden Bough.  It pains me greatly to say that he then
offered forth an imperial writ, and was admitted.  Immediately thereafter I
witnessed the Most Honorable and Revered Lady, Mrissa hiKetkolel, Hrugashkoi
to the Temple of Ksarul, leave the clan house.

This worthless servant perceived an angry cast to her features, which only
speaks of being forced to leave the residence before she was ready to do so.
Since it is known she was studying the Six Hands that Claw The Heavens, I
must assume that this new individual must have been seeking similar
diversion.

I know fear, now, Noble and Wise lord who owns me, Bakte and Hlakme.  Not
the unending terror that your presence brings me, but the fear that you
might be in danger.  I perceive greater forces are now investigating this
disturbance.

This worm awaits the punishment he shall receive for not knowing sooner.

<unsigned>
<undated>