Su'uzar hiMneleth, Iron Helm

It pleases me greatly to have received response to my letter, and with that
response comes questions which I shall do my best to answer.

I do apologize for some of my previous letter, for I am sometimes known to
be too poetic at times -- in such a way that I might accidentally obscure my
meaning.  This particular affliction taking me during times of high emotion.

In your letter you ask about the nature of the gloves I saw.  Please
understand that my memory is somewhat hazy surrounding the preceding events,
but I am sure that the gloves were of hide.  Brown, as sturdy gloves
intended for work.  Perhaps a smith's, save for they were exquisitely made
and well fashioned.  I noticed no particularities in the number, nor size,
of fingers.  As far as I can remember, they bore no marks that might make
them other than unremarkable.

Given Varsu's reactions to this unknown assassin, he must have been at least
a long term acquaintance.  I knew my friend well, and could read the signs
of his expressions.  This guest was someone whom he trusted, but since I am
not privy to a list of such people, I cannot narrow down or even investigate
directly who this might be.

My friend, Varsu hiMrityatlaku, was distracted by a great many activities.
It is known to me that he had some understanding of matters arcane, for this
was the purpose of a recent expedition into the underworld beneath Bey Su.
As to the wards and precautions, I know there were many -- particularly
within that room in which he entertained guests -- but I do not know their
nature.  Such matters, try as I might, are difficult for me to understand
with any clarity.

Now that my memory is upon it, I do remember one item which may be of
significance.  Above the sole visible door to the room was a complex symbol,
which my friend kept carefully drawn.  Each day he would examine the sigil,
and redraw any small part which did not satisfy his critical eye.  Upon the
eve of my friend's death, I do not remember seeing the sigil above the door.

I know that Varsu would not have allowed it to be removed, and as he could
see it from where he sat, he would not be unaware if it had vanished.  To
me, then, this means it vanished after some point at which my friend's
attention was distracted.  Perhaps somehow removed by the guest as they
retired from Varsu's presence?

You question the nature of the colour of the beetle, when I mentioned that
it was "Solid, like the metal, not animal mimicry."  What I had meant to say
is that, in nature, an animal quite often takes the aspect of a material.
Blues, greens, and golds, are common amongst insects.  However, the quality
of the colour belies its nature, revealing it to be of an insect and not the
metal itself.   This creature that my dear friend succumbed to was of purest
colour, such that I could discern no hint that it might not actually be made
of that material.

Yet, to clear a point, I saw no indication of mechanation.  The joints moved
smooth, like any insect, and where its six wings attached I could see ropy
sinew of muscle.  If this truly be a construct of some Later Time Wizard,
then they were crafters of great skill for the insect was terrible in its
beauty.

Should this parchment find useful information for you, so that you might
better understand the gravity of what has transpired, I will be pleased.  If
it, further, reveals secrets as yet unknown then I will overjoyed.

Tsemel hiTlekune, Purple Gem Clan