To the noble Tsemel hiTlekune, Purple Gem


From Kadesh hiVutraiyu, Kusijaktosa  (senior scholar), Temple of Hru'u at
Meku (Tlaksa hiVirida, his scribe)

Most noble Sir - 

The name and honorable achievements of your friend are known to me, and it
is with great sadness that I heard of his passing.  I was given a copy of
your letter by my friend, Hrugash Trinesh hiMitla, who asked me if I would
assist you with any insight I may bring to bear.

Although the specific device you describe is not known to me, I have seen
similar simulacra in the possession of my Temple's scholars.  They are
devices that date from the Latter Times, as near as we can tell, and were
the playthings of the lords of that time.  Like the Ru'un, we believe that
these puissant sorcerers could change the behavior of these devices, but
sadly, this knowledge has been lost in the intervening centuries.

However, I have never heard of one being trained to attack.  Certainly, this
device was intended for assassination.

I was particularly intrigued by the mention of gloves.  It is not a common
sartorial practice here in Meku, and it stands out.  I suspect that the
device was set to activate when touched with the bare flesh of the victim,
and may even have used that contact to mark your friend for death.

I have also never heard of one of these devices "disappearing", as you say.
A more technical description would be helpful.  It is unclear if the device
came apart into pieces too small to be seen, or if it shifted in a planar
fashion, or if it became invisible.  Also, have you examined the box, and
the remains of the pyramid, or have they "disappeared" as well?  The various
forms of disapparation and their associated visual effects is an area of
particular interest for me; please forgive my impatience on this point.

I would not worry about the existence of more of these killer devices.  In
all ways, this to me looks like an attack specifically directed towards your
friend, and I would look towards his enemies, and especially his other
friends for more information regarding this fatal gift.

I hope that in some small way my wisdom can ameliorate your grief.

(Signed)
(His Mark)