To the Most Noble and Honored Tsemel hiTlekune, Purple
Gem.

My deepest condolences and commiserations on the lost
of you dear friend. Know that I will make an offering
this day at the temple of Qon to beg protections and
guidence for the lamented Varsu hiMrityatlaku's
further journying. 

Forgive me for daring to speak on this matter, as I
know in my youth and lowly rank it is unseemly to
speak before my betters can address your needs, but I
am moved by the teachings of my eldars and by this sad
tale to offer what little learning I have. I fear I
will likely ask more questions than I shall answer,
but questions light the path to final illumination. 

Please know that I have asked my master, the wise if
stern Ng'talu hiVashemne, Dark Flame, Kusijaktodali
here at the Portico of Whispered Enuciations, Temple
of the Black Hand, to peruse your missive. I may have
his reactions before this ink dries.

When you say "I saw, was a set of large gloved hands
place a colourful box upon the desk of my friend."

I must ask, were these unusually large hands? Did you
note the movement of five fingers rather than three or
four or dare I ask...six? And a monotone voice you
say? 

I take it your friend was a noble official or military
man? He was not distracted by the learnings of the
arcane? What can you tell me of the precautions and
wards regularly maintained by his house priest. Or was
it the practice to only accept gifts personally from
the most trusted of aquaintences? Did the house priest
detect any emmanations or traces of other planar power
when he or she properly performed the Perception of
the Energies?

\It was of three, smoothly joined,
> layers: Brown on the
> bottom, sea green in the middle, and ivory or bone
> to form the point.

I would suspect that the colors may be significant.
They question is how? Related to the astrological
signs of the person who delivered it? Of the victim?
of the Gods or demons involved? If as you say these
pyramids are many and old, then the actors in our
drama are not the link. Perhasp the Bodies of the
Heavens...Sarku's brown Uletl, Dlamelish's green
Gayel, and Hnalla's yellowish-white Tuleng? Or is it
truly bone...no I dare not think. However these are
associations any child at play could make...I would
suspect a deeper, hidden association. Let us not
forget the possibility of foreign demons, oft
worshipped as "gods" by the outlying barbarian nations
or the weak Livyani.  I fear my education has but
begun in the areas of the demons of the outer darks,
and I can be of little help here, although I shall
consult what texts I may wheedle out of my eldar
students. There is one here who is deeply immersed in
these studies and his den-den debt to be is
substantial. 

Your description "humming felt not with the ears
but within the bones and
behind my teeth" and "the single beetle, for that is
all that was within despite the noise, was shimmering
gold in colour" fills me with dread. 

A beetle? Like unto that sacred to my Lord's Lord? Yet
gold you say? The color sacred to Lord Belkhanu? Again
these leaps are too easy and too clumsy. i would
suspect a deeper mystery. If these symbols have
meaning it is a twisted and subtle one that my poor
reasoning is not equal too. 

Yet you saw "Solid, like the metal, not some animal
mimicry". I fear I do not fully understand, my reading
of your fine words being insufficient. Are you saying
that it did not look alie to you? That it could have
even been a contstruct? A socerous toy or a weapon
devised by the Lords of the Latter Times, or dare I
even speak...the Ancients? Is this how they slew their
enemies? The legends say their power, their subtlety,
and, it is rumored, their maddess, was without
parallel. Dare I ask...I must...how carefully did the
authorities and the preists examine the honored dead.
Is it certain that he is dead and not layed low by
some sorcery or poison delivered by the creature or
the device? Could he be wearing but a semblence of
death? I mean no disrespect. 

Six wings and eight legs? I fear my learning of the
natural world is even more feeble than my
understanding of religous ritual and proper theology.
I dare not speak of the numerology of the sacred
numbers of six and eight. What manner of insect is
this thing most like? I know of no insect with eight
legs save for some varieties of the Atlun-spider. What
you describe sounds terrifingly like "The Leech", the
fearsome Ngrutha, save this horrid thing of nightmares
is 10 feet long more more!

I fear I shall not sleep well on my dormitory mat
after your description of 'an insectoid drill, then
burrowed under his skin and my friend's eyes rolled up
as his expression mixed between pain and ecstacy". 

Again the mind leaps to fears of an unknown toxin or,
Mighty Gruganu forfend, the possession of your friend
by sorcerous or demonic means. This must be
investigated! Perhaps it is not too late if the batke
is preserved, the chusetle is helplessly wandering,
the hlakme is trapped or restrained, and the baletl
waits for the outcome of this drama.  

Your investigations have mentioned Tsamra, thus a
possible connection with the shagow gods and the
demons revered by the Livyani, and Purdimal whose
roots are very deep indeed. If these are the same
pyramids they are indeed old. 

Alas, I fear that this is all I can offer at this
time. Perhaps soon my elders will speak and put us on
the right path. If I may be of any small service,
please allow me the honor of doing what I can in your
service. Your offer to the effect of "any aid
that leads to the cause, and perhaps further to
restitution, would be well rewarded" is quite kind,
but as you know Noble Action calls to all those of
proper breeding to assist in exposing a foul and
ignoble deed such as cowardly murder, and the bringing
to justice of any bussan assassin. The very survival
of the Empire and all the traditions we revere demand
it. Thus rewards for proper behavior are unnecessary. 

Humbley written this day,
Su'uzur hiMneleth, 4th Circle Priest of Gruganu, Iron
Helm

PS. My master has returned and spoken to me. He, as
always, has kindly turned this time into a opportunity
to impart a lesson which I will remember, and perhaps
pass on to my students if one day i earn a
proctorship. Still smarting under the points of
emphasis, made with his equally agile toungue and cane
allow me to summarize his points, replacing his
occasional word which may be applied to a insufficient
student but should not be applied to a noble person of
your status. 

I shall avoid his opinions as to the wisdom of the
practices of accepting gifts of unknown provenance and
the, shall we say, less than wished-for level of duty
exhibited by house priests of the Golden Bough. I must
insist that the less than temperate statements made by
my master as to the skill, intellect, training,
competance, and sobriety of the Tlomtlanyal affiliated
and trained sorcerouos guardians must be attibuted to
the heart-rending grief he feels at the loss of the
noble Varsu. It is but his sorrow speaking. He does
remind the mighty Golden Bough that certain protective
amulets, talismans, and wards are assumed to be in
place for eventualities such as this, when dealing
with the unknown. He states he would not insult said
worthies by lecturing at length about the Triangle of
Being Repelled Forever, The Ward of I'ussuane, and so
on. His statemens were brief, other than the lessons
to students to learn from these...events, (to be
careful and methodical, perspicacious and suspicious,
and to never shirk from proper research and proper
warding diagrammes and ritual, and so on) but he is of
the opinion that, with this limitied information to go
on, that this device, for that is what it is, he says,
is indeed an infernal plaything of the Latter Times,
and that some perverse Wizard made these devices to
steal the hlakme of the victim, and to spirit it off
to another place where it may be toyed with, used,
tormented, or even treasured, like a fine piece of
First Imperium sculpture, to be admired for a time,
and then forgotten on a dusty shelf. He says you may
yet find and return your friend...if you are swift and
wise. I fear that I do not understand much of what he
is saying, but I write this as well as I can. Do you
envy me my studies at his knee?

I look forward to hearing what other things the Wise
might say. 


Su'uzur
