From anton@infoserv.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:46 CDT 1995
Article: 562 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!gatech!psinntp!psinntp!psinntp!psinntp!gatekeeper.wellsfargo.com!news1.digital.com!nntp-hub2.barrnet.net!nntp-sc.barrnet.net!infoserv!anton!anton
Message-ID: <766270d6311822t226@anton.infoserv.com>
Date: Tuesday, 30 May 1995 17:14:04 PDT
X-Mailer: TMail version 1.13
From: "Anton Dovydaitis" <anton@infoserv.com>
Organization: American Youth GO Association
References: <3q69l7$6s4@pentagon.io.com>
Subject: Re: Group project as Public Domain
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Distribution: world
Lines: 103

In <3q69l7$6s4@pentagon.io.com>, cheng@io.com (David Cheng)  wrote:
> 
> I'd like to disagree with the following opinions about the direction the 
> 'group authored' city pack should take, if it actually starts moving in 
> any direction, that is:
> 
> 1) Most activity should happen here on the Internet

I see the composition happenning here on the internet, as it is easier
to collaborate at a distance that way.
> 
> 2) The final product should be public domain

I would prefer that we be able to publish the final product, if Barker
approves.  I think anyone who has netaccess should be able to access,
but not sell the finished product.  I think Barker should hold the rights,
if any; a small return for the many gifts he has given us.

> I fear these two, if implemented, would seriously hamper the success of 
> the project.

I think that having the product distributed for profit would insure
wider distribution that having it only accessable on the net.  However,
not every project will likely qualify for publication.
 
> Activity stays on the net:

I don't see how non-netters can easily contribute.  I'm not opposed to
it, but practically, I don't see how.

> Why should only online gamers, or friends of online gamers, have access 
> to this material?

It would be better to distribute it on paper for profit.
Profits should go to the publisher or distributor, and Prof. Barker.

> If all 500 take the material and use it, I'd consider that a failure.
> If I were selling a game supplement I'd consider less than 2500 units
> sold as a failure too, as a reference point.

When we publish a GO book, we expect to sell a few thousand in the first
few years.

> I think the Internet Tekumel community is an excellent place to recruit 
> potential contribuors, but not the only place.

The ease with which contributions can be coordinated and exchanged on the
net is at least an order of magnitude higher than trying to coordinate
such a geographically disperse project by phone, FAX, or postal mail.
I don't see how it could be done.

I have one author and one artist which I working with locally to publish
a Tekumel module, but they all also have net access.
  
> I also think someone has to step forward and be Project Manager.
> Any volunteers?

As I have stated before, I will act as PEOPLE manager, if someone ELSE
will take care of the technology.  Besides Setnakh (which I need some
time to fully digest still), I have TWO projects in the works: a campaign
module, and some unpublished maps (the North EAST Frontier).

Both projects will be copyrighted, and both will (hopefully) be published
for (hopefully) profit.

Setnakh on its own is probably undeserving of publishing, but could be
incorporated into a larger work.


> Material is Public Domain:
> This is probably my evil MBA education talking, but I think the profit
> motive is a good way to keep the project on track and focussed.

I agree, but for a different reason.  I don't think that the authors
will make much, if any profit, and I do not encourage them in this
regard.  I want profit to motivate the publisher or distributor to
produce the work and get it into the marketplace.  The marketplace
moves gaming materials, and profit is the motive.

> If people put some work into producing a quality submission, why not
> pay them a bit?

Because the works are unlikely to be profitable for the authors.
Right now I am working on plans to raise capital in order to
entice TOME into publishing and distributing it.  In my costs analysis,
I am including some flat "fees" for the artists and authors, rather
than royalty payments.  This gives a little bit of money to the contributors,
and gives the publisher more incentive to move the product.

If there was excess profit to be had, beyond the distributor, I would
prefer to see that in Barker's hands.

I am not in it for the money.  To be honest, I am in it for the campaign
materials.  I want to buy them, they're not for sale, so I am MAKING them
for sale.  I am willing to put up some of my own money, pay artists,
provide equipment and expertise, raise capital, but all I hope for is
to not lose money, or lose little enough that my wife doesn't complain
about my hobbies.


Anton Dovydaitis			anton@infoserv.com
  For Ishi Press inquiries, mail to `ishius@ishius.com'.


From anton@infoserv.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:47 CDT 1995
Article: 563 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!gatech!psinntp!psinntp!psinntp!psinntp!gatekeeper.wellsfargo.com!news1.digital.com!nntp-hub2.barrnet.net!nntp-sc.barrnet.net!infoserv!anton!anton
Message-ID: <766270d6326982t227@anton.infoserv.com>
Date: Tuesday, 30 May 1995 17:32:50 PDT
X-Mailer: TMail version 1.13
From: "Anton Dovydaitis" <anton@infoserv.com>
Organization: American Youth GO Association
References: <3patl7$4kj@colossus.holonet.net> <3pri6k$mn3@xanadu.io.com> <5G1f0S7.rdushay@delphi.com>
Subject: Re: Let's Co-Create a Jakalla module
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Distribution: world
Lines: 22

In <5G1f0S7.rdushay@delphi.com>, rdushay@delphi.com (Robert Dushay)  wrote:
> 
> C. The beginnings of a campaign set in Salarvya, 2364.  There is a
> bit on a guesthouse in the Foreign Person's Quarter in Jakalla
> and the minor slumlord who owns it.  I have described a tiny bit
> of sailing into Tsatsayagga harbor, another tiny piece of the
> interior of the Ebon Palace, a few monuments in the City of Dead
> outside of Tsatsayagga, and the lobby of a clanhouse in Tsatsayagga.
> I have also named a few upper-class Salarvyani families there.
> Leaving Tsatsayagga, I have one Salarvyani merchant and his eccentric
> ship, a description of a famous ruthless Ahoggya pirate, who may
> be a myth, and that about wraps it up...for now.  I will keep on
> developing the coast of Salarvya as the party progresses.

Now THIS is the stuff I want to see.  I intend the Rising Sun Clan to
eventually to make their way from Jakalla to Tsatsayagga.  It's far
easier to travel around in Salarvyanu that Livyanu (especially now).


Anton Dovydaitis			anton@infoserv.com
  For Ishi Press inquiries, mail to `ishius@ishius.com'.


From rdushay@delphi.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:48 CDT 1995
Article: 564 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!uunet!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Re:Salarvya
Date: Sat, 3 Jun 95 07:39:06 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 14
Message-ID: <Jk4-lsC.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <5G1f0S7.rdushay@delphi.com> <3qg1dh$4na@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1d.delphi.com
X-To: Tekunu <tekunu@aol.com>

Tekunu <tekunu@aol.com> writes:
 
>I have explored much of the coast under Dr. Barker's tutelage.  He may be
>able to forward some of the descriptions he gave me, that I recorded and
>sent back to him.  It may help.
>
 
Oh, please!  It's much better than reinventing the wheel (of black?  It
is Salarvya, after all) and my campaign is in this area right now!
 
 
                                                 --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From Ashnak@auckland.ac.nz Sat Jun 10 10:45:48 CDT 1995
Article: 565 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!news.starnet.net!wupost!waikato!auckland.ac.nz!news
From: Ashnak@auckland.ac.nz (Your Name Here)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Send me info on AC
Date: 2 Jun 1995 04:01:32 GMT
Organization: The University of Auckland
Lines: 55
Message-ID: <3qm2es$erf@net.auckland.ac.nz>
References: <BM-dsFU.putythecat@delphi.com>
Reply-To: Ashnak@auckland.ac.nz
NNTP-Posting-Host: 130.216.85.73
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.91.4

In article <BM-dsFU.putythecat@delphi.com>, David Manvell 
<putythecat@delphi.com> says:
>
> Please send me info on AC.  I have been roleplaying and GMing for 
approx 13 years and have lots of great ideas


Ashnak	Supreme Warlord of the Forces of Darkness
> 
> 
> 
> 
>                       The Adventurer's Companion
>                 Fantasy Role-Playing exchange magazine
> 
> 
> If you like role-playing magazines, you'll love The Adventurer's
> Companion. It's the best of the bunch. New spells, stories, magic 
items,
> puzzles, adventures, product reviews, etc..
> 
> The Adventurer's Companion is an electronic magazine (or e-zine for you
> net-heads) focusing on Fantasy Role-Playing Games. Although the focus 
is
> generally centered around the fantasy genre, we will include articles 
on
> any type of RPG.
> 
> This magazine is a great way for role-players to exchange ideas and
> creations. Almost every role-player has thought up some new type of 
rule
> or gaming system, or has some idea they would like to share with other
> players and GMs. You will be able to read the ideas of many other 
gamers,
> and share your ideas with them.
> 
> 
> Want more information? Just drop us a note and we will send you info on
> what types of contributions we accept and how to get subscribed. EMail
> to one of the following Internet addresses:
> 
>                     --->>>> PutytheCat@Delphi.com
>                     --->>>> kerr@cs.uregina.ca
> 
> Please put "Send me info on AC" in the subject line.
> 
> 
> NOTE: The Adventurer's Companion is NOT free, We require that each
> subscriber send in 1 FREEWARE contribution per year as a subscription 
fee
> - and we require it up front. We edit and collate these writings into
> nice, neat issues, and EMail them right to your mailbox. Subscriber
> contributions are our ONLY source of articles.
> 
> 


From sgarbett@usit.net Sat Jun 10 10:45:49 CDT 1995
Article: 566 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!usit.net!use.usit.net!sgarbett
From: sgarbett@usit.net (Shawn Garbett)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Let's Co-Create a Jakalla module
Date: 1 Jun 1995 15:40:13 GMT
Organization: United States Internet, Inc.
Lines: 151
Message-ID: <3qkn0v$k8s@news.usit.net>
References: <3patl7$4kj@colossus.holonet.net> <3pri6k$mn3@xanadu.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: use.usit.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

: Let me ask this of the subscribership: _what can you contribute?_

: I'm not asking that you upload 50K of text.  I'm asking for a brief
: description of something that you could contribute to an effort like the 
: one Anton proposes. 

Well here it is anyway. This is going to require iteration to get
right. Here's my contribution to net-knowledge of Tekumel. This is probably
not accurate. I eye-balled and estimated to obtain most of these figures
and they need refinement, and more commentary (which I hope this group,
will gladly provide). I hope this to be a first pass at gathering knowledge
of the layout of Tsolyanu, hopefully this will be a seed that will grow
into something that Tekumel fans can use.          
 
Anyway on with the show, pg. 93-94 of Empire of the Petal Throne (the Red 
book)
had a system for determining the worth of a Fief holders hex. Well I
compared the Province map to the hex maps and tried to come up with an
estimated value of Kaitars collected. These figures will be low, because
I didn't include the existance of extra items such as mines which are
to randomly generated. I'm planning on calculating the average value of
the chart and adjusting these figures accordingly.   
 
Also these figures are derived from source material that is all
pre the current "civil-war" that is going on. It's the best source 
I have and I will probably stick to it.
 
                               {   Number of Hexs     }
                                       Tidal  Swamp      Revenue collected
            Provincel                  Forest Desert     by Fief-holders
Province    Capital        Size Plains Jungle Mountain   (1000's Kaitars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::::: These are the "Breadbasket of the Empire"
Marelmu     Mrelu          E      5     -      -         267
Turunkai    Tumissaa       F     13.5   -      -         721
Urudai      Urmish         E     11     -      -         587
Meku        Meku           B      7.5   -      -         401
Ketviru     Katalal        B      8.5   -      -         454
Nidlar      ?              ?      4     -      -         214
Khosa       Hauma          A      6     -      -         320
Urusai      Usenanu        B     15     -      -         801
:::::: These are other Tsolyanu provinces
Sritl       Si'is          C      2.7   -      -         143
Tu'un       Tu'unmra       C      3     -      -         160
Daikan      Khirgari       D      6     -      -         320
Tsechelnu   Penom          B      4.3   12?    -         552 
Elenur      Komore         C      5     -      -         267
Parikana    Purdimal       D      4.5   -      5.5       328
Ssu Sarku   Sarku          B      3     -      6         256
Kurtur      ?              ?      -     4      -         107
Alidlar     Tsuru          A      5     -      -         267
Ngalar      ?              ?      -     7?     -         187
Veshmuna    Aukesha        A      1.3   -      8         199
Avanthar    Avanthar       B      1     -      9         198      [1]
Berananga   Bey Su         F     16     -      -         854
Purdasu     Thraya         D     10     -      -         534
Jakash      Pala Jakalla   C      6     -      -         320
Trantis     Thriil         B      1.5   -     11         256
Viridlan    Failtum        F      3     -     17         433
Heku'u      ?              ?      1     -      9.5       206
Ferinara    Ferinara       A      2     -      0.5       115
Songga      Sokatis        D      2     2      2         192
Sine        Lnoris         A      2     -      -         107
Vra         Vra            C      2.5   -      -         134
Ganudla     Tleku          B      5     -      2.3       304
Layoda      Petris         B      3     -      -         160
Chaigari    Fenul          C      3     -     11.5       344      [2]
::::::Kaija Provinces
Kaija       Jakalla        F      8     -      2.5       467      [3]  
Teshkuru    Jaikalor       B      6     -      2.5       360
::::::Kerunan Provinces
Kerunan     Hekellu        C      1     -      7         166
Ru'anu      Ru             C      4     6      -         374
::::::Milumanaya       
Milumarsha  Sunraya        E     11     -      4         651      [4]
::::::Do Chaka Protectorate
Nemudlu     Chene Ho       B      2.7   3      -         223      [5]
Do Chaka    Paya Gupa      B      4    15      -         614      
::::::Pan Chaka Protectorate
Pan Chaka   Butr'us        E      2.5  24.7    7         904      [6]
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
Explanation of Size:
I didn't understand the symbols on the map other than representing
city size & population, but don't know what they mean, here's
the labels:
A = Dot in a circle
B = Circle in a Circle
C = Circle with dots around it's perimeter
D = Star in a circle with dots around it's perimeter
E = Circle in a circle with dots between them
F = Star in a circle in a circle with dots between the circles
 
Notes:
 
[1] Avanthar is the where the Petal Throne resides and the Glorious
    Emperor rules. It's income will also have a portion of all the
    provinces revenue-- Question is-- how much?
 
[2] If you look at the Legions of Tekumel books, Salavyanu has many
    many troops station around Fenul. More than the land and local
    taxes can support, so do they really own Fenul? There was some
    mention in recent history notes of a scuffle between Tsolyanu and
    Salavyanu here. Also the Ssu incursions are supposed to be getting
    worse. So how really owns Fenul? If it's Salavyanu then who is
    going to be the Governor to inform the Emperor?
 
[3] Many Hlutgu live in this province, most of this income is probably
    not collected. 
 
[4] Boy, this province looks like it sticks way out. It'll be the first
    to go when war hits. Looking at recent history I think it already
    has been lost.
 
[5] Do Chaka is more of a working relationship with the Pe Choi who
    live in the forest, I wonder if this income is still collected
    entirely by the Empire, or is the monentary arrangment different
    due to its Protectorate status.
 
[6] See [5]. Also this province is a huge resource of undeveloped forest
    that the Pachi Lei inhabit. I could see why those Red-hats want it
    so bad. I bet most of this income is also not seen by the Empire.
 
 
Now, did I get the "Bread-Basket" provinces right?
 
Also what would be a good set of groupings for the main Tsolyanu provinces?
 
I would love for someone to check my estimates of Hex sizes!
 
Anyone care to offer commentaries about these Provinces?
 
Also how much of what the Fief holder collects ends up in the Governors
Pot, the book says 10% for Adminstration. Likewise how much goes to
the Emperor? 10%? If 10% of 10% is correct and looking at the above
figures then 145,000 Kaitars goes to the Emperor.
 
 
Once this chart is updated to better accuracy, I'd like to figure out
population distribution in the provinces, then one could get crude
estimates of the distribution of wealth, like how wealthy one province
is compared to another (of course it could be just ending up in a few
peoples pockets). Also since each hex is 5340 square miles, then
sizes of provinces could be estimated. 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------
Shawn P. Garbett         "Deprived of the vampiric energy which they
sgarbett@usit.net         suck off their constituents, politicians are
                          seen for what they are--dead empty mass."
                             -- William S. Burroughs


From ishius@news.holonet.net Sat Jun 10 10:45:50 CDT 1995
Article: 567 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!holonet!colossus.holonet.net!ishius
From: ishius@news.holonet.net (Anton Dovydaitis)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: The future of EPT gaming.
Date: 2 Jun 1995 22:56:13 GMT
Organization: HoloNet National Internet Access System: 510-704-1058/modem
Lines: 22
Message-ID: <3qo4ud$nid@colossus.holonet.net>
References: <3qf6kn$f09@news.usit.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: zen.holonet.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

I hope that I will have something to say about the future of Tekumel.
Tonight I will be meeting with an author to produce a campaign module
for Tekumel that I think has a good chance of being approved by Barker.
My plan would be to raise the capital necessary to entice TOME to publish
the work (my guess is they won't be terribly enthusiastic).  I will bear
the upfront development costs myself, and hope to recover them.  I am also
developing some marketing materials for Tekumel for TOME to use to promote
the game.

There is also progress being made in putting together previously unpublished
maps, using professional mapping software, and perhaps ultimately producing
an Atlas.  At the very least, some of the maps can be incorporated into
the campaign module.

I think Tekumel sorely lacks a campaign module, and that this contribution
might help to reverse the slump.

More news as it develops...

Anton Dovydaitis




From fbrigdon@aol.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:50 CDT 1995
Article: 568 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news-e1a.megaweb.com!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: fbrigdon@aol.com (FBrigdon)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Re:Salarvya
Date: 4 Jun 1995 11:28:51 -0400
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 7
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3qsjfj$gv@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
References: <Jk4-lsC.rdushay@delphi.com>
Reply-To: fbrigdon@aol.com (FBrigdon)
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf02.mail.aol.com


>I have explored much of the coast under Dr. Barker's tutelage.  He may be
>able to forward some of the descriptions he gave me, that I recorded and
>sent back to him.  It may help.
>

I second that!


From cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk Sat Jun 10 10:45:51 CDT 1995
Article: 569 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!sun.cais.com!news2.net99.net!agis!gatech!news.sprintlink.net!demon!btnet!news.compulink.co.uk!cix.compulink.co.uk!usenet
From: cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk ("Caroline Gilby")
Subject: The Creeping Death  (or 'the absence of war')
Message-ID: <D9p3M6.5ED@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Compulink Information eXchange
Date: Mon, 5 Jun 1995 10:25:18 GMT
X-News-Software: Ameol
Lines: 16

Does EPT have a future unless it is actively supported by a major 
company?  Of the four EPT groups that I have belonged to in the UK, only 
one is running, and then only at intervals of months.  (Dave Morris 
appears to have ceased regular games, although Steve Foster still works 
hard to keep things alive.  Dermot Bolton has gone to Australia.  There 
was a group in the Midlands, but they evaporated in 1994)

The enthusiasm of this group is the one bright spark, I guess, but where 
is the tinder with which to light a fire?  How are we actively recruiting 
new people or converting the unbelievers?  (I don't think the concordat 
applies to RuneQuesters...)

Dare I hope that the plans in this group will improve things?

David Bailey            [my sig, my wife's subscription to cix]
Midori Ito              [finally passed the barrier gods at 14,400]


From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Sat Jun 10 10:45:51 CDT 1995
Article: 570 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!sun.cais.com!news2.net99.net!agis!gatech!news.sprintlink.net!demon!btnet!bt!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: The Creeping Death  (or 'the absence of war')
Date: 5 Jun 1995 12:09:23 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 17
Message-ID: <3qus5j$ej5@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk>
References: <D9p3M6.5ED@cix.compulink.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.99.4

In article <D9p3M6.5ED@cix.compulink.co.uk>, cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk 
says...
>
>Does EPT have a future unless it is actively supported by a major 
>company? 

I don't know that the frpg industry has much of a future - never mind EPT.
And, of course, EPT has hobbled along for most of its existence without such 
backing.  But I doubt any newcomers are coming in.  A pity, but there you 
go.

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
SoftLab, Networks & Systems                     Tel: +44 1473 644910
BT Labs                                         Fax: +44 1473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------



From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Sat Jun 10 10:45:52 CDT 1995
Article: 571 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!sun.cais.com!news2.net99.net!agis!gatech!news.sprintlink.net!demon!btnet!bt!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: The future of EPT gaming.
Date: 5 Jun 1995 12:10:59 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 19
Message-ID: <3qus8j$ej5@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk>
References: <3qf6kn$f09@news.usit.net> <3qo4ud$nid@colossus.holonet.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.99.4

In article <3qo4ud$nid@colossus.holonet.net>, ishius@news.holonet.net 
says...
>
>I hope that I will have something to say about the future of Tekumel.
>Tonight I will be meeting with an author to produce a campaign module
>for Tekumel that I think has a good chance of being approved by Barker.

Anton, you're a hero.  I think you deserve public thanks for all the effort 
you are putting in.

By the way, setnaffa, if you're listening, what's the latest on getting 
out-of-print stuff back into print? 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
SoftLab, Networks & Systems                     Tel: +44 1473 644910
BT Labs                                         Fax: +44 1473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------



From sgarbett@usit.net Sat Jun 10 10:45:52 CDT 1995
Article: 572 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!uunet!panix!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!news.starnet.net!wupost!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!usit.net!use.usit.net!sgarbett
From: sgarbett@usit.net (Shawn Garbett)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Mythology of Tekumel
Date: 5 Jun 1995 14:59:44 GMT
Organization: United States Internet, Inc.
Lines: 69
Message-ID: <3qv651$7hs@news.usit.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: use.usit.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

I've been studying mythology as of late. I've been reading about
Asian and it's differences to Western thought. Also I've been
reading about Native Central and South American mythologies and
some ancient Western mythology. I'm curious as to the underlying
thought of Tekumel in general. Joseph Campbell claims that
the big difference between Western and Eastern thought came about
under Zoasterianism, when Zoaster seperated things into good and evil
and it was the duty of a man to voluntarily search out the evil
and destroy it, leaving the good behind. Before this the main
thing was that life occurs in cycles, ever larger and larger. It
was not beneficial to strive for individual gain, because in perspective
individual gain would be balanced over the cycles. There was
only the path of Dharma or Tao, that is the true path. Then Campbell
separates it into, the Indian thought of smoothing the cycles out and
the Oriental thought of just riding the waves.

Well anyway, Pavar seems to have greatly influences Tekumelian 
thought. What was his underlying concept? He divided things
into Gods of Change and those of Stability, and the Others.
There doesn't seem to be a duty of Stability to stamp out change
or vice-versa (although they don't get along too well together).
So there is a Zoaster-like division, but without the duty. This
division was also present in Eastern thought, but likewise without
the duty, and it's importance likewise was diminised. 

Does anyone know of any mention of things of this nature in any
of the existing Tekumel literature besides the Book of Ebon Bindings?



Also I read a funny account of something that happened supposidly
in ancient Macedonia, actually several things.

One there was a philosopher who lived in a Clay bowl in the center 
of town. Well Alexander had just claimed the throne and was seeking
confirmation from all important officials. The philosopher (can't
remember the name) didn't show, so Alexander marched out to his
clay bowl with an ontourage of soldiers and asked him why he
didn't attend. He looked up from the bowl and said "You're standing
in my light." (refering to the tan he was working on). At which
point the soldiers got ready to kill the philosopher and Alexander said
something to the effect of "Hold off, if I wasn't Alexander I would
be <philosophers name here>" He got a kick out of the guy. So 
anyway it inspired me to have a head priest of Dra living in a bowl
in the center of a town. The characters have seen the person living
in the bowl and probably consider him a strange bum. Well they
have to find the head priest of Dra for some reason, and they keep
walking by him in town while looking for him. 

Another couple of funny incidents, at one point a group of priests
showed up in a town and made a great deal of noise, beating gongs
and drums, dancing and shoutings day and night, till they got enough
donations to quit. Sounds like a Dra fundraiser to me.

Also Alexander always would try and make a sacrifice at a local
temple and a generous donation so that he could get the locals on
his side. Well he rolls into one town and written across the top
of the local temple was "Eat, Drink, F**k, there is nothing else!"
Either the locals were hedonists or were just poor and had given
up everything to Alexander already, anyway sounds like it should
be a great inscription for a Dlamelish temple to me.



--------------------------------------------------------------
Shawn P. Garbett         "Deprived of the vampiric energy which they
sgarbett@usit.net         suck off their constituents, politicians are
                          seen for what they are--dead empty mass."
                             -- William S. Burroughs


From TRQX23F@prodigy.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:53 CDT 1995
Article: 573 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news.rtd.com!news.primenet.com!news.asu.edu!asuvax!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!prodigy.com!usenet
From: TRQX23F@prodigy.com (Vanessa Williams)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: talk live/Hot Sex
Date: 6 Jun 1995 15:37:54 GMT
Organization: Prodigy Services Company  1-800-PRODIGY
Lines: 3
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3r1soi$1kuc@usenetw1.news.prodigy.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: inugap4.news.prodigy.com
X-Newsreader: Version 1.2

HOT GIRLS TALK LIVE. ALL NEW AT  http://www.locate.com/hot-sex.html




From mjg@io.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:53 CDT 1995
Article: 577 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!io.com!not-for-mail
From: mjg@io.com (Mitchell J. Gross)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Online Resources?
Date: 8 Jun 1995 21:06:25 -0500
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 16
Distribution: all
Message-ID: <3r8ab1$uo@bermuda.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bermuda.io.com

Are there any online resources for Tekumel out there besides this 
newsgroup, the BBS, and the io.com ftp site?

Primarily, I'm looking for web pages, although ftp sites or mailing lists 
would be of interest.

Thanks!

--
Mitchell J. Gross | Visionary Publishing
mjg@io.com        | Member of the SGPA and GAMA
AOL: VisionaryG   | WWW: http://www.io.com/~mjg
TEAM VISIONARY    | FTP: ftp.indiana.edu/pub/doc/camarila/Visionary/





From mjg@io.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:54 CDT 1995
Article: 578 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!io.com!not-for-mail
From: mjg@io.com (Mitchell J. Gross)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Newsgroup Desc
Date: 8 Jun 1995 21:08:14 -0500
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 17
Distribution: all
Message-ID: <3r8aee$12b@bermuda.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bermuda.io.com

At the moment, my newsreader lists alt.games.frp.tekumel as 'alternate 
group'. Anyway this could be changed to be a bit more descriptive?

Perhaps to: Discussion of M.A.R. Barker's wonderful game.

*grin*

Thanks!

--
Mitchell J. Gross | Visionary Publishing
mjg@io.com        | Member of the SGPA and GAMA
AOL: VisionaryG   | WWW: http://www.io.com/~mjg
TEAM VISIONARY    | FTP: ftp.indiana.edu/pub/doc/camarila/Visionary/





From valapati@aludra.usc.edu Sat Jun 10 10:45:54 CDT 1995
Article: 579 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!News.MO.NET!news.sccsi.com!nuchat!news.uh.edu!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!usc!usc!not-for-mail
From: valapati@aludra.usc.edu (Vedavyasa Alapati)
Newsgroups: alt.games.final-fantasy,alt.games.frp.2300ad,alt.games.frp.dnd-il,alt.games.frp.live-action,alt.games.frp.tekumel,alt.games.galactic-bloodshed,alt.games.gb,alt.games,heretic,alt.games.ibmpc.shadowcaster,alt.games.jyhad,alt.games.marathon
Subject: Your game PHOTO as screen saver
Date: 7 Jun 1995 20:50:14 -0700
Organization: University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
Lines: 37
Sender: valapati@aludra.usc.edu
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3r5s1m$jre@aludra.usc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: aludra.usc.edu
Xref: news.io.com alt.games.final-fantasy:5887 alt.games.frp.2300ad:17 alt.games.frp.live-action:1770 alt.games.frp.tekumel:579 alt.games.gb:4719 alt.games:1415 alt.games.ibmpc.shadowcaster:119 alt.games.jyhad:1841 alt.games.marathon:5182



Want to have your photograph as the screen saver? No problem. Sai Saver 
helps you do  that.  You  can  download  Version  1.0 of Sai Saver FREE of 
cost by Netscape from  http://www.cs.wayne.edu/~srv/SaiSaver.html 



                         SAI SAVER VERSION 1.0
                         ---------------------

Sai Saver introduces the concept of including your information and screen
saver customization.

Features of Sai Saver:

1. Can load any photograph of your choice.

2. Has a messaging system where you can leave the time of return and also
   a short message.

3. Displays elapsed time since you left the computer.

4. Can display your name and address or any frequently used message.

5. Comes with optional password protection.


Version 1.0 of Sai Saver DOES NOT give you the choice of loading photograph
                         --------
of your choice into the screen saver. If you want to load photograph of your

choice you can request for version 2.0 of Sai Saver.


If you need more information please feel free to send me a mail at
alapati@aludra.usc.edu 


From setnaffa@ix.netcom.com Sat Jun 10 10:45:55 CDT 1995
Article: 580 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!ix.netcom.com!netnews
From: setnaffa@ix.netcom.com (setnaffa)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: The future of EPT gaming.
Date: 6 Jun 1995 01:13:15 GMT
Organization: Netcom
Lines: 45
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3r0a3b$2t6@ixnews3.ix.netcom.com>
References: <3qf6kn$f09@news.usit.net> <3qo4ud$nid@colossus.holonet.net> <3qus8j$ej5@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ix-dfw9-23.ix.netcom.com

In <3qus8j$ej5@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk> rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger
Pearse) writes: 
>
>In article <3qo4ud$nid@colossus.holonet.net>, ishius@news.holonet.net 
>says...
>>
>>I hope that I will have something to say about the future of Tekumel.
>>Tonight I will be meeting with an author to produce a campaign module
>>for Tekumel that I think has a good chance of being approved by
Barker.
>
>Anton, you're a hero.  I think you deserve public thanks for all the
effort 
>you are putting in.
>

We should pattern our actions after Anton who is really getting things
going!  Thanks also to Chris Davis for the Blue Room mailing list! 
Thanks to those others among you for the modules you have created and
shared with me!

>By the way, setnaffa, if you're listening, what's the latest on
getting 
>out-of-print stuff back into print? 

We have permission from the Professor and TOME to republish the
Tsolyanu Grammar electronically.   :-)

We have permission from the Professor and explicit "Wait!" from TOME on
all else...    :-(

We are attempting to create something useful to be released when TOME
gives their permission.  However, my work schedule has put a spanner
into the works, as they say.  I may be in Asia for Much of July and so
anyone who has access to the Tsolyanu Grammar and who wants to type or
send me a clean photocopy may do so.  I will export it to those who
want it-- or anyone with an ftp site could store it for others to
retrieve anonomously...

BTW, anyone who needs my new address since I moved 5/31/95, please
email me and I'll let you have it on a need-to-know basis.  Those in
the Dallas, TX area be aware I've got a room and permission from my
wife for Tekumel gaming!

John T. Bailey = setnaffa@ix.netcom.com


From cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk Sat Jun 10 10:45:55 CDT 1995
Article: 581 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!sun.cais.com!news2.net99.net!agis!voyager.internex.net	!internex.net!news.sprintlink.net!demon!btnet!news.compulink.co.uk!cix.compulink.co.uk!usenet
From: cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk ("Caroline Gilby")
Subject: This is what was happening in the UK Midlands....
Message-ID: <D9tov9.9ov@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Compulink Information eXchange
References: <D9p3M6.5ED@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Date: Wed, 7 Jun 1995 21:54:45 GMT
X-News-Software: Ameol
Lines: 354

At about the time that we were beginning to hear of the problems caused 
by the civil wars, a small group of adventurers were setting out in the 
UK.  This is the diary, initally of a poor scribe, and later.. well, read 
it and see....

THE THINGS THAT CAME TO BE WHILE WE WERE ON THE RUN FROM TLANGTEN

This is the true and correct history of the events that proceeded from 
our flight out of the city of Pala Jakala, then under the tyrannical rule 
of Tlangten {hi Vriddi} the Immolator.

Our flight began on that fateful day of the riot in the Hirulakte arena, 
the day that the good people of Pala Jakala rose up against the unjust 
impositions of the Legions of Fire. We fled in some disorder to the safe 
house of the Temple of Ksarul in the city of Jakala (by ways which, even 
today, I cannot name ). In this safe house we rested for a night and a 
day.

Kurshetl {hi Ssanmirin}  was waxed quite wroth about the affair. To him 
it seemed that it was merely designed to discommode him alone. The 
others, Lady Meralokoi among them, saw it as an unmitigated disaster 
caused by forces beyond their control, a maelstrom into which they were 
cast like straws. Lord Shiyusakh sat in silent reproach; I felt he 
carried some inner burden of guilt for the affair.

The scribe, Fores {hi Sayanu?}, seemed to feel that he was the victim of 
some awful joke perpetrated by Midori Ito. I personally felt he was 
correct, since I was present in the Sakbe waystation to witness the 
"pouring of dronu on the fire" episode. Burning with his anger Fores 
inspired the others to thoughts of murder. Midori had disappeared at the 
time of the riots, indeed he had never arrived at the arena at all, 
despite having caused the duel in the first place. It did indeed seem 
that he was the agent provocateur Fores made him out to be.

That first night was the worst. My noble master knew that his friends and 
family would surely suffer, even to death if he did not surrender. Each 
of the noble lords knew that similar fates were probably being metted out 
on their kith and kin. Pathiqeng {of Emerald Kirtle, and notorious 
libertine}, in a fit of madness proposed his troth to the Lady Meralokoi. 
Inexplicably she accepted.

The strange things began that night: Pathiqeng was up late on his own, 
apparently to finish the wine. What he saw or heard is still unclear to 
us all; yet the lines of fear were there for all to read in his face when 
he was picked up from the room. Only the banging shutter gave credence to 
his story of a phantom visitor.

Though I think over the next day very hard it is still a mystery that 
Lord Midori was not killed when he turned up at the safe house in the 
guise of a carpet seller.  It is more of a mystery that a nobleman could 
sink to taking on a such a disguise without dying of 'buslan'.  Met at 
the door by the Shen and Bashrugi, he managed in a few innocent words to 
convince them that they could profit from his knowledge. I alone saw the 
lethal grey shimmer about that hand he held behind his back in the last 
moment before smiles took their faces; proof enough of the serpents 
intention to strike to my mind.  Yet we let him in.

In moments we were on the road; Midori was laughing about the names on 
the wanted poster, Bashrugi {a warrior with fate on his side} was fired 
with courage, Ole'enu was full of laughter and gaiety. Yet, when alone, 
they all looked around each corner; all had one eye on their friends and 
another on the road behind.

Midori's boat proved a blessing to us, with the help of a certain friend 
we passed without hindrance into the oceans. For a few blissful momonts 
we were free of fear, and even the appearance on the horizon of the 
flotilla of Haggar of Parantha was of no consequence. I chuckle still at 
the looks on the faces of those brave men as the boat pulled up, flanked 
by those huge ships of war. I was glad not to have to wash my masters 
kilt that evening.

The jolly-boat we took to the shore that day was an incongruous start to 
our trip into ultimate terror. The sun was up, gulls circled and a wisp 
of smoke trailed out of the shanty on the shore. We landed and were not 
greeted. The ignorance in some parts of the Imperium is appalling, my 
master may be a criminal under sentence of execution, but he is still a 
noble.

The shack was as squalid as it looked, the stench of fish and smoke 
overpowering everything. The necessity for food and water must have 
fuddled the brains of the lords, because they gave a putrid little 
peasant boy the money I earn in a year for some bowls and some dried 
fish. Meralokoi claimed never to have heard of a coin so small as a 
chirgal. *Ohe ! Ohe!* 
_to_have_a_chirgal_in_one's_hand_is_to_be_free_of_care_.

Walking in the swamps was a daydream nightmare, worse than my first day 
as a slave at the harbour wall. Beset with things that bit, things that 
scratched, things that sucked my blood, strange itches and the stink of 
swamp gasses. Awful beyond imagining was that day. Imagine the faces of 
the ladies on discovering leeches on their fine skins. See the sneer of 
revulsion on the face of the great warrior, Shiyusakh {a foreigner}  as 
he plucked at the glistening, swollen parasites then eat them with 
hling-relish. That night I slept little.

Lady Meralokoi was taken very sick by the tribulations of the swamp and I 
assisted her on the next day. This saved my worthless life. Had I been at 
the front it may have been I that was swallowed in a crash of jaws and 
water. Poor Dirasha {a slave, unusually he had told the scribe his name} 
dead from a footfall, miles from his family. No-one even mentioned 
compensation for his poor children, such was the shock of that instant.

Bashrugi alone enjoyed that day, roasting some poor beast with magic. He 
led on with a fiery enthusiasm to a larger than normal hammock, bedecked 
with trees and full of the sound of sweet birds

I rested for a little and drew water for the Lady; as I returned I had to 
run into the forest to catch up with them all, for thay had been drawn 
away by a shout from Shiyusakh.  Into the greenery I plunged, heedless of 
the risks; and headlong I fell, having tripped over a moss draped pile of 
rubble. The place then took on an atmosphere of menace and foreboding.  
The birds were stilled. I went nervously on, and found the rest of them 
talking to a bruised and battered Shiyusakh outwith the walls of an 
ancient building, now grown to be part of the forest itself.

How my soul leapt to see the signs and sigils of Our Lady of Harvests on 
those walls. How foolish I was to pray for her assistance, for she would 
never have attention to spare for one as low as I.

In went the dark priest Midori, la! I quailed at the thought of _his_ 
feet on _those_ once holy steps. My lord opened the door with magiks of a 
most potent kind, and I feel it was impolite of him not to ask Her 
permission first.

At the end of a dank tunnel a scuffle broke out. I arrived too late to 
see the fight, but saw the remains of demon creatures made only of of 
twigs and earth. Now cut to pieces, they had inflicted dreadful wounds 
with their wooden claws on the bodyguards.

I just had to go up and rest in the shade while they explored. 

...................next day............................

What twaddle ! The slave whose body I am cursed to sit atop of may have 
been a scribe in past employ, but to sit down and fill in a diary when 
Bashrugi was behind him with an axe was not very clever. Still, thankful 
for some small mercies I can at least write again. Hands ! Feet ! Breath 
! Oh, the joy of it all.

>From  what my saviour says I was in that damned jar for two thousand 
years. All my plans come to nought because of a few jealous rivals. I 
should rather have spent the time under the floor in Avanthar. Two 
thousand years, and all I can get is this slave's unwashed body. I am 
draining my pedthetl too fast in supporting this flesh, let's hope the 
gamble pays. Let's hope the knowledge that I bear is still of value after 
all this time, I doubt that any one else would have dared to take the 
risk that I took to get the knowledge. I fear that one of the Beetle 
priests will guess at the power that keeps my soul bound to this plane, 
if only they knew what a pale shadow of this vitality they used in their 
bastard creations, if only I could tell my sisters.

Thankfully they did not activate the things which guarded the Roof of the 
Earth, even so it sent a shudder through me going through into the Navel 
of the Goddess.  Down again, how little it had changed since I arrived.  
Bashrugi said that the fields were gone from the area and that the swamp 
was back, I doubt this can be a 'Great Age' if they cannot look after a 
few fields. It seems the present Squatting Toad on the Jade Toilet is 
some  ghastly Worm Lord, hotly contested by a flame-filled stripling 
fired up with dreams of blood and ashes. Pah !

The reception we got at the bottom was quite amusing, Bashrugi dissembled 
wildly, and the other fools believed him... Astounding.

I can still see the look on Midori's face; one moment he was ready to 
cast his evil spells at a hulking great Pachei Lei; the next moment he is 
grovelling at the feet of some jumped-up young power-monger from a 
coastal village called Pala Jakala. Kurshetl was totally non-plussed. 
I'll say one thing for Donmikoyel {hi Gangassa}, he has the gift of 
oratory as well as good looks. Perhaps later there will be a chance to 
see if he has other talents needed by statesmen.

While the dolts played with the tubeway station and took stock of their 
position I went off in Donmikoyel's boat. Such a relief to drop this 
mask, and so intriguing to read in that slave's thoughts of the way out 
along the river. I was even more surprised to find the tombs, but had to 
turn back because of those awful guardians.

By the time I had punted back they were all geared up to assault any 
arrival, and all gloating over their little discoveries. Such petty 
secrets.

It was bound to end in a fiasco; Kurshetl removing half the floor, 
Bashrugi nearly dissolved in the Purple Bladder Weed of the Ssu, Midori 
falling down drunk behind the table, and Pathiqeng letting rip like a 
blindman with his crossbow. I expected the tubecar to explode and kill us 
all, but it left ... billowing smoke and sparks!  Kurshetl was perplexed 
at the non-arrival of the car he expected, but that was nothing to the 
consternation the party, Donmikoyel included, when they learned they had 
attacked the servants of the _rightful_ King of Pechano. Why they should 
be worried about some foreign thief is a puzzle, why they should be so 
trigger happy is a sign of the strain caused by their criminality.  How 
can it have come to this for me?  In the company of stake ornaments and 
fools. Only Pathiqeng's obvious charms makes this bearable.

>From  bad to worse. The cheerful band headed off up a sewer maintenance 
shaft. I tried hard to recall where this ran too, but it had always been 
closed off in my day. It took me some time to realise that it would reach 
as far as the Fortress of Hrugga. Astonishing that this group of 
misbegotten blunderers could stumble upon a way into a place that has 
kept its secrets since the Empire of Engsvan hlaGanga fell. I remember 
coming across references to the activity between the villagers and the 
fortress in temple records. Hrugga was a legend when the temple was 
founded, and that was one of the first in this land. The fort did not 
close until the Legion went out, taking the standards. In their shame of 
defeat they never returned, the gates stayed locked, the villages fell to 
raiders. Strange that I could enter via the Navel of the Goddess and the 
Sewer of the Hero.

Watching Kushetl blow himself up with the Eye of Advancing Through 
Portals lent light relief to the tunnels gloom.  More hilarity yet from 
Shiyusakh tumbling through an open door.

Emerging into the spring room below the fort was a wonder, the magic was 
palpable in the water and the walls, the power required to drive that 
source beggars description. Bashrugi disturbed my wonder by looking ill, 
despite the glee on his face from finding a superb sword of the ancient 
flame warriors.

Just a small climb up into the air, we came out surrounded by towers and 
walls of impossible height; overwhelmed I nearly fled back the way I had 
came. Fortunately the effect passed and I saw clearly that this was of 
modest size, much as I remembered from the outside.

I followed on into the first room which the group entered. A bath-house 
and acolytes sleeping area. How drab, how uncomfortable, how cold and 
joyless. Give me the green silk and soft bodies of my sisters, and you 
can keep this, you mice in grey sackcloth ! My erstwhile saviour, 
Bashrugi, was almost immediately the victim of treachery: he merely lit 
some fragrant incense and Kurshetl embroiled him in the despicable 
Vapours of Death so beloved of his ilk. More treachery I suspected when 
Bashrugi was whisked out of sight by that zrne-vixen, Meralokoi. I sped 
to his aid but fortunately the action was harmless on her part. Indeed it 
may have saved his life. Pathiqeng, like all those men who take the green 
kirtle was found to take simple pleasure from some perfume he found.

I am finding it harder and harder to control this body, already it is on 
the path to putrescence. Magically I am stronger than ever, physically 
weaker than a Hma.  Bashrugi agrees to find me a woman's body soon, but 
when ?

...................the diary was dropped and recovered by someone else...

I doubt the dreadful woman will realise that I have the diary she left in 
the armoury. Still, one can't be too careful.

We went into the first tower that we saw, it was grey, with grey relief 
and grey bits. I was just about to leave when I was persuaded to have a 
look downstairs.

It was fun to pop down into the cellar hugging Pathiqeng close, perhaps I 
could be tempted.  Never mind, perhaps later.  The coffin of Hrugga was 
fabulous, what fun it would be to keep my favourite enemies in there and 
let them out for a taunt on occasion.

By now I was nearly sober again, only because I was out of dronu.  This 
made all the fighting a pain on the ears.  Across the grey dust into 
another grey tower.  What a colour scheme; no wonder they all moved out.  
This one was more fun. I scarcely had time to notice before Bashrugi came 
at me with an axe.

Why must he keep on doing that to me, it only gets him hurt?  In this 
case he upset Kurshetl royally, so much so that he set 'Blunder' and 
'Hurting' {the body guards} on the poor misguided boy.  Surprise and 
delight were the least of Bashrugi's emotions when he discovered that the 
sword's powers returned the blows of the Slobbering Servants upon their 
bodies. Slightly less surprised was I when my first bolt went wide and 
still 'Boring' fell over.  At least my second went 
true-as-a-priest-of-Thumis. When the dust settled the Shen had fallen 
too.  I have my suspicions as to how, and she knows it.

Pathiqeng, Shiyusakh and Ole'enu returned in a most peculiar state from 
the Tower of Reaching to the Gods.  Pathiqeng was contemplative and made 
no jokes about sex, Ole'enu was fired with aggression and determination, 
while Shiyusakh seemed relaxed and concerned with procreation.

It wasn't for some time that I realised that Shiyusakh had tried to rip 
me off, .... I was so pleased to be a good influence of Change on that 
man.

The Tower of Martial Glory quickly proved to be a lot more interesting. 
We used the clever rods to lift us up to the top. Before we could remove 
the historical artifacts for examination ( loot! ); in fact, before we 
had stepped into the room; a little wrestling demon grabbed Kurshetl. 
Seriously discommoded, and almost disarmed (!) Kurshetl was saved by his 
worthy scribe.  More of these little horrors leapt out of the walls over 
the next few moments, and although they did little damage, they did 
prompt some panicky reaction from the assembled company.  I escaped their 
embrace, not surprising when one considers my reputation for despatching 
demons to the unending grey.

By now it was clear how upset Pathy was about his dead Shen, but it was 
only to be expected that all the others would be very worried about 
Kurshetl in view of the attack on Bashrugi.

We removed the damagable items to safe keeping and went up another floor 
to have a loot, sorry, look.  This was a beautiful room, fit for a Kerdu. 
Fores spotted the steel nibbed pens, Bashrugi discounted the steel sword 
in favour of his own, Kurshetl broke off some seal and accidentally (so 
he said) let more demons loose in the room. Typical. Twenty seconds later 
he had vanished with Meralokoi, Pathiqeng and sacks full of books.  This 
was great; alone in a room with a psychotic flame worshipper, a guy who 
could have me whipped for farting in public, a smelly priestess of 
Dlamelish and several chameleon-like demons. Terrific.

Having dealt with what I presume to be Watchers of the High Tower, picked 
Donmikoyel up off the desk he fell over, ( I must send him the pen I kept 
as a souvenir, truley mightier than the sword ), and seen that the Blue 
Roomers were gone, I made my best decision of the day.  Instead of going 
after them we went down and looked around the previous room. A pocketful 
of eyes and amulets is sufficient to cheer me up from the deepest 
hangover.  Donmikoyel explained carefully to Bashrugi that the Capacious 
Eye of Retaining All Things would be a good place to hide stuff from 
Kurshetl, so we popped into it all the things we had.  These _things_ 
included a very large model of an arena full of Nluss warriors and 
Inimicable fighters.  Bashrugi said it tried to suck him in for a fight 
so I want to drop a certain someone in it soon.

All to the good so far. Kushetl came back, without the sacks of course.  
He claimed to have lost them.  One day I will get through his little 
nexus, and clear out his bolt-hole.  We agreed not to kill each other 
immediately and then we all tried to get some sleep.

I vaguely remember some shouting in the night: apparently Shiyusakh and 
his horny wife went down the cellar to find somewhere private.  What they 
found was a whole posse of Hra.  Shiyusakh hacked one to bits and nearly 
costs me a bet with Donmikoyel.  Pathiqeng actually hit what he aimed for 
for a change, shortly after blowing one of Kurshetl's slaves apart, and 
Bashrugi played the hero ( inspired by the Book of Mighty Swords that he 
had read before bedtime).  I rolled over and went back to sleep. I guess 
Hrugga, or who ever lived here, kept the Hra for practice.

Having been nearly killed once a sensible person would not go back again; 
but like the curious Kuni bird that he is, Kurshetl just had to try 
again. No learning spheres this time, just a box full of military 
records.  Not, in my humble opinion, worth summoning four demons from the 
musty hells of Thumis to smack our butts.  This time we were ready, and 
the demonettes took the thrashing instead.

A quick bath, a good sleep and up for breakfast. By now I am sick of fish 
and dna grain porridge. Kurshetl wanted to kill us all in the Tower of 
Demons. Fores was only half awake. I wanted to go home. Donmikoyel, 
rapidly improving in my esteem, lead us into a frozen garden. Heavenly. 
The damned thing came alive under our very feet, even the gardener woke 
up...

-0- Records of the Clan of Scribes -0- These loose pages are all that 
remains of our honoured brother.  May his words illuminate the souls of 
men. -0-


If this is seen as 'clutter' please let me know and I'll go back to being 
a lurker.

David Bailey            aka Midori Ito


From slocum@io.com Sat Jun 10 11:02:53 CDT 1995
Article: 582 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.io.com!not-for-mail
From: slocum@io.com (Brett Slocum)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Online Resources?
Date: 10 Jun 1995 11:02:48 -0500
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 17
Distribution: all
Message-ID: <3rcfn8$ige@pentagon.io.com>
References: <3r8ab1$uo@bermuda.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com

In article <3r8ab1$uo@bermuda.io.com>, Mitchell J. Gross <mjg@io.com> wrote:
>Are there any online resources for Tekumel out there besides this 
>newsgroup, the BBS, and the io.com ftp site?
>
>Primarily, I'm looking for web pages, although ftp sites or mailing lists 
>would be of interest.

Check out the Web Tekumel FAQ and other Tekumel Web pages.
Tekumel Home Page:  http://wings.network.com/gopher/tekumel/tekumel.html
My Tekumel Home Page: http://www.io.com/~slocum/tekumel.html
Tekumel FAQ: http://www.io.com/~slocum/tek_faq.html

-- 
Brett Slocum   http:/www.io.com/~slocum
slocum@io.com
See my Magic: the Gathering and Illuminati: New World Order
trading lists at the above home page or email me for a list.


From achourfb@ix.netcom.com Sun Jun 11 15:15:42 CDT 1995
Article: 583 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news.rtd.com!news.azstarnet.com!news.sprintlink.net!noc.netcom.net!ix.netcom.com!netnews
From: achourfb@ix.netcom.com (Faouzi Achour )
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Skill rolls in the Tekumel Rules
Date: 9 Jun 1995 01:08:12 GMT
Organization: Netcom
Lines: 8
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3r86ts$9q5@ixnews6.ix.netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ix-atl13-12.ix.netcom.com

For those of you who understand the rules better than I.....
How are skill rolls supposed to be handled?  What does the player roll
against, and how high is the skill limits?

Also, since the combat system is a little lacking (understatement),
what alternatives are people using?

Thanks ahead of time.


From rdushay@delphi.com Sun Jun 11 15:15:43 CDT 1995
Article: 584 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news1.best.com!agis!simtel!news.sprintlink.net!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: The Creeping Death  (or 'the absence of war')
Date: Sat, 10 Jun 95 09:36:49 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 28
Message-ID: <hYzfl7J.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <D9p3M6.5ED@cix.compulink.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1d.delphi.com
X-To: "Caroline Gilby" <cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk>

"Caroline Gilby" <cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk> writes:
 
>Does EPT have a future unless it is actively supported by a major 
>company?  Of the four EPT groups that I have belonged to in the UK, only 
>one is running, and then only at intervals of months.  (Dave Morris 
 
 
David, maybe this is presumptuous, but maybe you should start your own
campaign.  Your diary post shows you have the imagination to do it.
>From  my limited experience, part of the reason Tekumel is so sparse is that
it takes a bit more time than most role-playing games, and most Tekumel
players are adults out of school with real-life responsibilities.  Perhaps
youare at the point of causing growth yourself: start your own campaign,
invite in new players, and get them hooked.  The Eye of All Seeing Wonder
has published enough adventures that you might not even have to put that
much work into it.
 
   If fans like you (and me) can't attract new gamers, why should we
expect TOME to do it all by itself?
 
 
                                                 --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars
 
Oh, P.S.: Where to recruit gamers?  Dave Cheng says regular games at local
stores are a good place to start, so spectators can see a game in action
and join in.  This is what I'm going to try to do this summer.


From astolfo@interaccess.com Sun Jun 11 15:15:44 CDT 1995
Article: 585 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!newsjunkie.ans.net!interaccess!nb-dyna76.interaccess.com!astolfo
From: astolfo <astolfo@interaccess.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Neophyte's impressions
Date: 7 Jun 1995 02:10:44 GMT
Organization: InterAccess, Chicago's best Internet Service Provider
Lines: 65
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3r31r4$pt1@nntp.interaccess.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: nb-dyna76.interaccess.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
X-Newsreader: Nuntius 2.0.4_68K
X-XXMessage-ID: <ABFA687CB20101B0@nb-dyna76.interaccess.com>
X-XXDate: Tue, 6 Jun 1995 02:18:04 GMT

	I've just bought Gardasiyal today, and I want to say a few things about
my disappointment with it. I emphasize disappointment, because I have
wanted to learn about Tekumel for several years now and I thought my $44
might cover that. It didn't. I've read the archives of this news group
and I understand that all this has been gone over ad nauseam; however, I
think my experience might be enlightining to anyone from TOME who might
be reading this group or anyone who cares about Tekumel.
	I have been gaming for 16 years now, primarily AD&D, D&D, Traveller,
Gurps, and (Don't laugh) Dangerous Journeys. I had known about EPT when
it was out from T$R, but couldn't buy it cause I was a poor kid. I forgot
about it as I got older, until about a year or so ago I saw Adventures on
Tekumel, pt 1. The name rang a bell, and so I looked at the book and was
completely confused. It seemed a waste of $12, and to use it, it seemed I
had to buy the part 2 books for a total of $65.00. Then to start a
adventure, the bestiary-18.95; giving a total of $84.00. That was all my
game shop had available. I see from my box that the Tekumel sourcebooks
are available for $12.00 each. Thus, at that time, for me to purchase all
of Tekumel's references and start to learn and design a game to play in
the world, I would have to have spent $108. I bought Dangerous Journeys
instead.
	This I think is important. Regardless of peoples opinions on DJ, the
fact remains that for $98.00, I was able to purchase a complete game
set-a 412 page Rulebook, a 381 page magic book, a 268 page setting, and a
347 page bestiary. True, quantity of pages doesn't equal the quality of a
game; but I purchased 1408 pages that I could use immediately, and I had
ten bucks left over. 
	Now, with the addition of Gardasiyal, the cost to outfit a Tekumel game
is up to $152! And that's with no adventure to start with.
	Now you're probably saying- yea 1400 pages of crap--and to an extent, i
agree. But the fact is, my money went to GDW(Well, in the end to t$r) and
Gygax instead of Prof Barker and TOME. And that means that another vote
was cast at the game store against Tekumel. Enough people do that, and no
more EPT.
	And what really pisses me off is I'm so tantalized by what I've read
that i am eventually going to have to buy the other $108 worth of stuff.
I'm dying to know more about Tekumel. I'm just afraid that I'm not going
to get much even then.
	So what does this have to do with any of you? The fact is, a subculture
survives only when it has members- and it flourishes only when it has
members. Different opinions and takes on a game help it grow. Right now,
EPT seems to have a Gnostic cultish quality--only those in the know can
play, and if you want to get in the know, you got to find someone to
initiate you and then learn at their pace...
	To sum it up, I can't understand why this set cost $44 and I don't even
know what the five empires are. Or what clans are. Or the major races.
Right now it seems like TOME is pulling a t$r--here's the rules and
here's a million "optional" supplements. Why is it that their printing
costs so much more than any other publisher. As I said, I'm not ripping
on them, I'm just expressing disappointment. Tekumel looks so damn
fascinating. I just don't want it to eat my wallet.
	Oh, and one other thing. From what I've read so far, EPT bears a strong
resemblance to Vance's Dying Earth. I am I wrong in that?
	Sorry for the length of this post. I had to get it out. 


----------------------------------------------------------------------
"Knowest thou the land where the lemon trees bloom?
The golden oranges glow amid the dark leaves
a gentle wind blows from the blue sky
the myrtle stands motionless and the bay tree tall
Do you know it then?
to that, to that
o my beloved, i should like to set out with you."										

																								-Goethe


From rdushay@delphi.com Thu Jun 15 18:32:43 CDT 1995
Article: 584 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news1.best.com!agis!simtel!news.sprintlink.net!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: The Creeping Death  (or 'the absence of war')
Date: Sat, 10 Jun 95 09:36:49 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 28
Message-ID: <hYzfl7J.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <D9p3M6.5ED@cix.compulink.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1d.delphi.com
X-To: "Caroline Gilby" <cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk>

"Caroline Gilby" <cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk> writes:
 
>Does EPT have a future unless it is actively supported by a major 
>company?  Of the four EPT groups that I have belonged to in the UK, only 
>one is running, and then only at intervals of months.  (Dave Morris 
 
 
David, maybe this is presumptuous, but maybe you should start your own
campaign.  Your diary post shows you have the imagination to do it.
>From  my limited experience, part of the reason Tekumel is so sparse is that
it takes a bit more time than most role-playing games, and most Tekumel
players are adults out of school with real-life responsibilities.  Perhaps
youare at the point of causing growth yourself: start your own campaign,
invite in new players, and get them hooked.  The Eye of All Seeing Wonder
has published enough adventures that you might not even have to put that
much work into it.
 
   If fans like you (and me) can't attract new gamers, why should we
expect TOME to do it all by itself?
 
 
                                                 --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars
 
Oh, P.S.: Where to recruit gamers?  Dave Cheng says regular games at local
stores are a good place to start, so spectators can see a game in action
and join in.  This is what I'm going to try to do this summer.


From jericson@erinet.com Thu Jun 15 18:32:44 CDT 1995
Article: 586 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!news.erinet.com!usenet
From: jericson@erinet.com
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Tekumel Mailing List
Date: 7 Jun 1995 16:01:34 GMT
Organization: EriNet Online 513 436-9915
Lines: 4
Message-ID: <3r4igu$kqd@news.erinet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: dlp26.erinet.com
X-Newsreader: SPRY News 3.03 (SPRY, Inc.)

Good someone please post how to subscribe to the Tekumel mailing list again? Thanks.


Jim 


From rdushay@delphi.com Thu Jun 15 18:32:45 CDT 1995
Article: 587 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news1.best.com!sdd.hp.com!swrinde!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!in1.uu.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Mythology of Tekumel
Date: Sat, 10 Jun 95 09:05:59 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 35
Message-ID: <haw8dbP.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3qv651$7hs@news.usit.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1d.delphi.com
X-To: Shawn Garbett <sgarbett@usit.net>

Shawn, I am no expert on such things, but I think your note contained
a few misconceptions regarding religion and mythology.
  1.  With all respect to Joseph Campbell and other scholars (I am not
one), I don't believe all western religions mirrored eastern ones before
Zoroaster.  If I remember correctly, Zoroaster appeared sometime during
the Persian Empire.  Tmonotheism of the ancient Hebrews says nothing
of a cyclical nature to time; in fact, some have argued that the Hebrews
started the whole western concept of linear time.  Admittedly, early
Hebrew thought said nothing about dualism: the one God was responsible
for both good and evil.  The earlier scriptures say nothing to resolve the
contradiction of a basically good God who dispenses evil at random, but
there seem to be glimmers that evil occurs as a punishment for those
who are bad or who have bad thoughts.
  2. A crucial difference between our religious and mythological thought
and the mythologies of Tekumel is the existence of the gods there.  Of
course, Pavar's theology and mythology depend on human conceptions, which
would allow the input of religious fundamentals, as demonstrated by our
modern scholars.  However, the theology of Pavar, at some point, has to
deal with the reality as revealed by the gods.  After all, they have proof
of an afterlife, and we do not.  Personally, I am fascinated by the Tekumelani
concept of reincarnation that does not depend on one's good deeds in life.
That is, the form you take next time around has nothing to do with how
well you fulfilled your role in this life.
  3. Your story of the philosopher in the bowl sounds remarkably like
the death of Archimedes, well after Alexander.  When the Romans captured
Syracuse, a soldier came upon Archimedes sketching in the dirt.  Archimedes
told him "get out of the way, you are blocking my light," at which point
the Roman killed him.
 
I'm sure this doesn't clarify anything, but I wanted to get my cent in.
 
 
                                                 --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From rdushay@delphi.com Thu Jun 15 18:32:45 CDT 1995
Article: 588 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news1.best.com!sdd.hp.com!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!swrinde!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Neophyte's impressions
Date: Sat, 10 Jun 95 09:25:19 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 55
Message-ID: <h6y89dP.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3r31r4$pt1@nntp.interaccess.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1d.delphi.com
X-To: astolfo <astolfo@interaccess.com>

astolfo <astolfo@interaccess.com> writes:
 
>	I've just bought Gardasiyal today, and I want to say a few things about
>my disappointment with it. I emphasize disappointment, because I have
 
 
 
>	And what really pisses me off is I'm so tantalized by what I've read
>that i am eventually going to have to buy the other $108 worth of stuff.
>I'm dying to know more about Tekumel. I'm just afraid that I'm not going
>to get much even then.
 
 
Hello, Astolfo.  I'm just a concerned fan, not an employee of TOME, but
you have some valid complaints, and I think I can help you.
 
I don't know whose decision it was to chop up the game in this fashion, but
it seems pretty clear to me that Gardasiyal was always intended to be a
sequel to the solo gamebooks.  You can get your feet wet in Tekumel for a
fraction of the money you spent, if you just buy the character generation
book and at least one of the solo gamebooks, preferably the blue one.
Gardasiyal ought to have a big sticker on the wrapper telling people this.
 
The Adventures on Tekumel books contain a lot of the cultural information
you'll want to see what the world is like (I know I keep flipping bakc
through them for references, and I have the sourcebooks!), and if you've
gone through all three solo books you'll have enough information to begin
running your own Tekumel campaign, although admittedly without a lot of
the detail given in the sourcebooks.
 
My advice?  Professor Barker said to return the game to TOME if you're not
happy with it for a refund.  As much as I hate to reduce sales by even 1
box, I think you'll make TOME sit up and take notice if you do this AS LONG
AS YOU TELL THEM WHY!!!   This makes it clear that Tekumel is an interesting
and appealing product, but somebody screwed up on how to sell it.  If
enough people complain, and they start to lose money, maybe they'll put out
that little sticker that says "NOT FOR BEGINNERS: START WITH THE SOLO GAME-
BOOKS AND WE MEAN IT!".  You may even ask them to exchange Gardasiyal for
the character generation system and the solo books.
 
Incidentally, the character generation book by itself is a waste, but it
was never intended to be a stand-alone product, obviously.  It has lots of
cultural information tucked into it, including what clans are.  If you
like Tekumel, I think after you've been through the character generation
book and the solo gamebooks, you'll be ready to run Gardasiyal.  For now,
however, you should probably put it on a shelf, because it won't help
much.
 
I'll be happy to answer whatever questions you have, either here on the
group or by private email, if you prefer.
 
 
                                                 --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From rdushay@delphi.com Thu Jun 15 18:32:46 CDT 1995
Article: 589 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news1.best.com!sdd.hp.com!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: This is what was happening in the UK Midlands....
Date: Sat, 10 Jun 95 09:28:17 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 6
Message-ID: <p6ydtZB.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <D9p3M6.5ED@cix.compulink.co.uk> <D9tov9.9ov@cix.compulink.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1d.delphi.com
X-To: "Caroline Gilby" <cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk>

Oh, no, not clutter at all!  Keep 'em coming, please!
 
 
                                                 --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From rdushay@delphi.com Thu Jun 15 18:32:46 CDT 1995
Article: 590 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.fc.net!news.net99.net!news1.best.com!sdd.hp.com!swrinde!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tekumel Mailing List
Date: Sat, 10 Jun 95 09:31:01 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 15
Message-ID: <p4z+VJN.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3r4igu$kqd@news.erinet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1d.delphi.com
X-To: <jericson@erinet.com>

<jericson@erinet.com> writes:
 
>Good someone please post how to subscribe to the Tekumel mailing list again? Thanks.
>
>
>Jim 
 
 
Send a note to "blueroom@prin.edu" asking to subscribe.  (It doesn't seem
to have an automated subscription process.)
 
 
                                                 --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From Tillek@wings.network.com Fri Jun 30 18:51:30 CDT 1995
Article: 604 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!rutgers!news.cs.indiana.edu!umn.edu!dialup-4-13.gw.umn.edu!user
From: Tillek@wings.network.com (Keith Dalluhn)
Subject: Re: Other EPT 'games'
Message-ID: <Tillek-2206950017360001@dialup-4-13.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-4-13.gw.umn.edu
Organization: Avanthar inc.
References: <3saedi$693@crl.crl.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Jun 1995 18:17:36 GMT
Lines: 32

In article <3saedi$693@crl.crl.com>, lfiction@crl.com (Jonathan Zamick) wrote:

> Well the card market is at least glutted on things other than big
> name products. (The next big 'thing' I'm told will be Star Wars collector
> cards, and knowing the next series of movies will be out in a couple years
> I can see those skyrocketing.)
> 
> I think that exploring alternative markets might be good, but energy and
> manhours are limited. Thus keep them focused on producing enough material
> about the world of a quality for public use, that folk might be able to
> enter into the enjoyment of it.
> 
> A game I would like to see as I mentioned before is DenDen. Of course the
> most difficult thing would be developing a game capable of allowing multiple
> levels of play and finesse, and not leaning to one or two strategies. (Most
> heavy strategy games had many generations to develop.) Still if it was
> usuable with both the simplicity and intricacy of a game like Go, imagine
> how wonderful an aide it could be for players... and the possible success
> in the marketplace. New games such as Abalone have been good money crops.
> 
> Jonathan

   Somewhere around here I have a copy of a game called Saidha (saeetha) Or
"siege" in Tsolyani.  It is a childrens game whereby you thrust stones into
scoring positions on a board.  Played in one form or another throughout the
five empires.  I should drag it out and see what has happened to it.

-Keith

-- 
Neurotics build houses in the clouds.  Psychotics live in them.  My mother cleans them.



From babalob@aol.com Fri Jun 30 18:51:30 CDT 1995
Article: 606 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!swrinde!howland.reston.ans.net!news-e1a.megaweb.com!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: babalob@aol.com (BABALOB)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: help!
Date: 23 Jun 1995 22:35:35 -0400
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 10
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3sftln$bh3@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
Reply-To: babalob@aol.com (BABALOB)
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf02.mail.aol.com

Hi!!!!!   I'm a new EPT player.   I have most of the game materials
published to date.  However, I am anxious to keep up with the All Seeing
Eye of Wonder magazine.  Can anyone tell how to do this, and if there are
any other cool resources?   Also, does anyone live in New England (USA)
and if so do they run their own EPT game?  I'd love to join in.

Sincerely,    DGWible     <babalob@aol.com>

I'd sign off with some clever fraise in Tsolyani, but I'm too scared to
embarass myself!!!!!!!


From cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk Fri Jun 30 18:51:31 CDT 1995
Article: 607 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!usc!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!demon!btnet!news.compulink.co.uk!cix.compulink.co.uk!usenet
From: cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk ("Caroline Gilby")
Subject: Where are all the stability demons?
Message-ID: <DAunM8.E56@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Compulink Information eXchange
Date: Tue, 27 Jun 1995 20:58:56 GMT
X-News-Software: Ameol
Lines: 38

It has been bugging me for a long time, this.

We all know that Tsemel Quren hiKetkolel was a lying, devious and 
manipulative person (a.k.a high Ritual Priest of the temple of Ksarul at 
Bey Su), so we ought to take the Book of Ebon bindings with a large pinch 
of salt.

A few very lucky people will have seen the draft of a manuscript by 
Jadthek hiVriddi (Jamie Thomson) which intimated that there were greater 
affiliations and resemblances between the gods of stability and certain 
demons.

The old Swords and Glory spell lists give demon servitors of low levels 
that can be called for each of the ten gods described by Pavar, both of 
change and of stability.

So why are there no stability demons in Ebon Bindings?  (see para 2)

Can we start a list of all of those that we know /created /killed /were 
killed by in our games?

I would like to start with a particularly pleasant little demonette that 
a party found guarding an entrance to an old Avanthe tomb out on the 
coast.  It was about four feet high, and made of twigs, roots, fungi  and 
earth.  As it didn't respond to any of the charms or sigils in Ebon 
Bindings it took a toll on the Ksarul priests who were at the front.  It 
seemed to respond especially harshly to such people - stopping their 
mouths with earth and causing the surrounding plants to lunge at them 
like spears.

It had a glyph hidden on a preserved bark scroll in an alcove, which, 
when burned, dispelled it.  Phew...Lucky Ksarul priests!  Shame they 
failed to take a copy...

Any others


Midori Ito


From D.J.Bolton@bradford.ac.uk Fri Jun 30 18:51:31 CDT 1995
Article: 608 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!plug.news.pipex.net!pipex!soap.news.pipex.net!pipex!edi.news.pipex.net!pipex!warwick!bradford.ac.uk!D.J.Bolton
From: D.J.Bolton@bradford.ac.uk (Dermot)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Where are all the stability demons?
Date: Thu, 29 Jun 1995 02:28:19 GMT
Organization: University of Bradford, UK
Lines: 16
Message-ID: <1995Jun29.022819.29118@bradford.ac.uk>
References: <DAunM8.E56@cix.compulink.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: muser-fddi.acc.brad.ac.uk
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Originator: djbolton@muser

Caroline Gilby (cgilby@cix.compulink.co.uk) said:

: A few very lucky people will have seen the draft of a manuscript by 
: Jadthek hiVriddi (Jamie Thomson) which intimated that there were greater 
: affiliations and resemblances between the gods of stability and certain 
: demons.

Ah, you are referring to the famous 'Patterns of hidden discernment' by
the GRand Adept (inept?) of the tnmple of Chiteng. It descibes what the
various glyphs mean, and gives many insights into the nature of dwellers
of the demon planes.  Someday it may even be published in the 'Eye',
truely an excellent treatise.

Treshkoi hiVrazhimu
--
replies to: <dermot.bolton@tafensw.edu.au>


From setnaffa@ix.netcom.com Fri Jun 30 18:51:32 CDT 1995
Article: 609 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: news.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!ix.netcom.com!netnews
From: setnaffa@ix.netcom.com (setnaffa)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Introducing new people to EPT
Date: 29 Jun 1995 04:00:12 GMT
Organization: Netcom
Lines: 34
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3st8gc$4bd@ixnews4.ix.netcom.com>
References: <3rt9nh$opq@newsbf02.news.aol.com> <3s09v0$4uh@giga.bga.com> <3s6hpt$13n@anaxagoras.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ix-dfw14-01.ix.netcom.com

In <3s6hpt$13n@anaxagoras.io.com> mjg@io.com (Mitchell J. Gross)
writes: 
>
>Jeff (gauntlet@bga.com) wrote:
>
>> Brilliant!  The Tekumel Collectible Trading Card Game!
>
>AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!!!!!!!!! NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO!!!!
>
>--
>Mitchell J. Gross | Visionary Publishing
>mjg@io.com        | WWW: http://www.io.com/~mjg
>AOL: VisionaryG   | FTP: ftp.indiana.edu/pub/doc/camarila/Visionary/


     This Tekumel Trading Card (TTC) idea has got to be a plot of those
disreputable members of the Pariah Gods' cults.  

     I mean, who else would think of putting the 20 Pavar Dieties, the
Emperor, the Temple of Sarku at Purdimal, the Mihalla Royal Footmen,
Queen Nayari's first husband's manicurist's nephew's recipe for stew,
the Man of Gold, and 25 of the 452 lesser aspects of the Goddess of
Pale Bone into the same starter deck?

     Besides me.   Er, I hope you don't think I...

     No, wait.  I mean, it's just a joke.  Wait.  You can't drag a guy
of to the pits for telling bad jokes, can you?  :-)





Oops!!!


