From rdushay@delphi.com Sat Mar  4 09:19:17 CST 1995
Article: 95 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: WANTED:  Successful Rules Variants
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 95 22:35:09 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 11
Message-ID: <5k07lM1.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3irjq0$sgh@ixnews3.ix.netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1f.delphi.com
X-To: setnaffa <setnaffa@ix.netcom.com>

setnaffa <setnaffa@ix.netcom.com> writes:
 
>Please email me if you've got a successful ADnD variant for EPT.
 
Just in case anybody else cares, I have a more or less complete adaptation
of AD&D, 2nd edition for Tekumel.  It uses the Swords and Glory magic
system, but there's no reason why AD&D spells couldn't be used if somebody
wanted to.
   Warning: I gave up on the effort because I felt the heroic nature of
AD&D play didn't fit Tekumel too well: an 8th level character will be
pretty well able to consider taking on entire legions single-handedly...


From rdushay@delphi.com Sat Mar  4 09:19:18 CST 1995
Article: 96 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: New EPT Rules Update
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 95 22:47:20 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 17
Message-ID: <xG26V8w.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com> <bark002-0203952003320001@dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1f.delphi.com
X-To: M.A.R. Barker <bark002@maroon.tc.umn.edu>

Wow!  Welcome to the group, Professor!   hope you'll become a regular
contributor.
 
I spoke with TOME this week about the new rules.  They wanted me to
emphasize that if you order directly from them, before 3/31, you'll
get a 20% discount: Gardasiyal for $36, instead of the list price of $44.
They also told me that they are concerned about the typically poor sales
of Tekumel stuff, and that if they don't sell enough of the rules
they may well reconsider carrying Tekumel at all.  If you want to see
TOME continue to carry new products, BUY A SET!  Buy two and give a copy
to your aunt!
 
You can reach them at (610)-935-7622.
 
--
Bob Dushay
1st Legion Heavy Scholars


From bark002@maroon.tc.umn.edu Sat Mar  4 09:19:18 CST 1995
Article: 97 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!ns2.MainStreet.Net!news.i.net!news.world.net!news.sprintlink.net!howland.reston.ans.net!news.moneng.mei.com!uwm.edu!msunews!gmi!srvr1.flint.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!zip.eecs.umich.edu!umn.edu!dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu!user
From: bark002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker)
Subject: Re: New EPT Rules Update
Message-ID: <bark002-0203952003320001@dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu
Organization: University of Minnesota
X-Newsreader: Value-Added NewsWatcher 2.0b24.0+
References: <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 1995 02:03:32 GMT
Lines: 15

In article <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com>, mabelrode@aol.com
(Mabelrode) wrote:

>      What is the status of the New rules for EPT?
> 
> 
> Sincerely
> 
> Mabelrode

Theater of the Mind will issue a completely new set of rules in April of
1995.  We are now waiting for the completion of a brand new map that is
being produced.

M.A.R. Barker


From 94409505@hector.unil.ch Sat Mar  4 21:58:15 CST 1995
Article: 98 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!news.rtd.com!news.primenet.com!news.sprintlink.net!cs.utexas.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!jussieu.fr!univ-lyon1.fr!swidir.switch.ch!cisun2000.unil.ch!news
From: 94409505@hector.unil.ch (SLUSHY  GOTON )
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel,alt.games.lynx,alt.music.techno
Subject: Dj Placid Angel
Date: 3 Mar 1995 16:09:48 GMT
Organization: Ecole des HEC - UNIL
Lines: 5
Message-ID: <3j7f0c$9e8@cisun2000.unil.ch>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pcbf1cei41.unil.ch
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.11
Xref: illuminati.io.com alt.games.frp.tekumel:98 alt.games.lynx:7049 alt.music.techno:13505

 do you like him ?

If you don't know his music, you can go and hear 
his music at the OXA from Zuerich!



From 94409505@hector.unil.ch Sat Mar  4 21:58:16 CST 1995
Article: 99 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!news.rtd.com!news.primenet.com!news.sprintlink.net!cs.utexas.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!jussieu.fr!univ-lyon1.fr!swidir.switch.ch!cisun2000.unil.ch!news
From: 94409505@hector.unil.ch (SLUSHY  GOTON )
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel,alt.games.lynx,alt.music.progressive
Subject: FERRAX DANCE CORPORATION
Date: 3 Mar 1995 16:16:16 GMT
Organization: Ecole des HEC - UNIL
Lines: 7
Message-ID: <3j7fcg$9e8@cisun2000.unil.ch>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pcbf1cei41.unil.ch
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.11
Xref: illuminati.io.com alt.games.frp.tekumel:99 alt.games.lynx:7051 alt.music.progressive:52113

It's a nice team of djs from Pully.

They are now unknomn but they will have success
They mix now at the BPM of Monthey.

My advice : Go & See Them !!!



From setnaffa@ix.netcom.com Tue Mar  7 20:14:10 CST 1995
Article: 101 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!news.rtd.com!news.primenet.com!news.sprintlink.net!howland.reston.ans.net!ix.netcom.com!netnews
From: setnaffa@ix.netcom.com (setnaffa)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Date: 4 Mar 1995 04:23:12 GMT
Organization: Netcom
Lines: 20
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ix-dfw2-01.ix.netcom.com

In order to foment thought and exacerbate the enjoyment this game has 
created for me (while we await the latest rules), I thought we could 
tell about out favorite and least favorite moments in the game, . . .

These two are from a game in 1976:

Best:  the time I used the Excellent Ruby Eye to stop the execution of a 
party member by a Ssu warrior...  we managed to escape, but barely.

     There were a bunch of tourist Ssu traveling through the ruins to 
the west of Jakalla.  We were outnumbered, out smarted, and about out of 
luck when I remembered the untested treasure from a previous game.  
lucky dice rolling gave us enough charges that we could escape back the 
way that we came.

Worst:  thirty minutes later when I splashed an underground puddle, only 
to find out I had irritated a Nshe...  :-)

     As we rounded a corner barely 100 yards from the outside, I really 
"put my foot into it."  It hit me once.  I fell down.  Nuff said.


From vesper@enif.astro.indiana.edu Tue Mar  7 20:14:11 CST 1995
Article: 102 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!ratty.wolfe.net!news1.wolfe.net!news.sprintlink.net!howland.reston.ans.net!spool.mu.edu!news.cs.indiana.edu!usenet.ucs.indiana.edu!enif.astro.indiana.edu!vesper
From: vesper@enif.astro.indiana.edu (Dave Vesper)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Book of Ebon Bindings
Date: 28 Feb 1995 18:11:21 GMT
Organization: Indiana University
Lines: 12
Message-ID: <3ivp09$ak4@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: enif.astro.indiana.edu

Hello all,
I've seen some discussion of the new TOME rules.  They're also putting out a 
copy of 'The Book of Ebon Bindings'. I have two questions-

Does anyone know if this is already out or awaiting release ? My local store
keeps telling me they expect a copy any day, but since the main rules aren't
out I have my doubts that the TOME version of this book is out.

Also, for those who have earlier versions of this book, do you recommend it ? 
I enjoyed 'Deeds of the Ever Glorious' and was hoping for something equally
filled with detail. Any comments ?



From rdushay@delphi.com Tue Mar  7 20:14:12 CST 1995
Article: 103 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!ns2.MainStreet.Net!news.i.net!news.world.net!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!in1.uu.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Book of Ebon Bindings
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 95 22:41:59 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 18
Message-ID: <xk9bF43.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3ivp09$ak4@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1f.delphi.com
X-To: Dave Vesper <vesper@enif.astro.indiana.edu>

Dave Vesper <vesper@enif.astro.indiana.edu> writes:
 
>Also, for those who have earlier versions of this book, do you recommend it ? 
>I enjoyed 'Deeds of the Ever Glorious' and was hoping for something equally
>filled with detail. Any comments ?
 
Ohboy ohboy I get to answer a juicy one like this!
Dave, the Book of Ebon Bindings should just be a reprint, and unless
TOME is temporarily out of stock, they should have plenty of copies around.
 
The Book of Ebon Bindings is filled with all kinds of juicy details, but
they are exclusively related to demon summoning and the hazards of it.
There are some amusing anecdotes of what happened to unlucky sorcerers, and
lots and lots of demons.  Be warned that this is strong stuff, with much
sex and goriness, and it's not for the casual reader (but it's probably
no worse than an R-rated film).  If you liked "Deeds", and you want
similar detail on demons and how to call them, get this book.  It's
probably the most popular piece of Tekumel stuff around.


From lfiction@crl.com Tue Mar  7 20:14:13 CST 1995
Article: 104 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!nntp.crl.com!crl6.crl.com!not-for-mail
From: lfiction@crl.com (Jonathan Zamick)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: New EPT Rules Update
Date: 5 Mar 1995 22:17:56 -0800
Organization: Living Fiction
Lines: 28
Message-ID: <3je9ek$s87@crl6.crl.com>
References: <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com> <bark002-0203952003320001@dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: crl6.crl.com

bark002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker) writes:

>In article <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com>, mabelrode@aol.com
>(Mabelrode) wrote:

>>      What is the status of the New rules for EPT?
>> 
>> 
>> Sincerely
>> 
>> Mabelrode

>Theater of the Mind will issue a completely new set of rules in April of
>1995.  We are now waiting for the completion of a brand new map that is
>being produced.

>M.A.R. Barker

Is it true, did they manage to drag Professor Barker back to the computer?
Welcome back sir, and glad to have you on the list.

Btw... someone from the San Fran area sent me mail before regarding EPT.
A friend of mine from the East Coast who introduced me to it, has just moved
out here (near Walnut Creek). He had decided to surprise me and didn't call
till he and his wife arrived. He is considering running an EPT campaign, so
I'm trying to reconnect. I'll see if I buried the message anywhere else.

Jonathan


From mabelrode@aol.com Tue Mar  7 20:14:13 CST 1995
Article: 105 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!ns2.MainStreet.Net!news.i.net!news.world.net!news.sprintlink.net!howland.reston.ans.net!swiss.ans.net!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: mabelrode@aol.com (Mabelrode)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Looking for Southern Ca. EPT Players
Date: 5 Mar 1995 00:11:29 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 9
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3jbh61$ck1@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
Reply-To: mabelrode@aol.com (Mabelrode)
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf02.mail.aol.com

I am trying to find anybody out there in the vast Southern California
landscape who would be interested in joining an EPT Game that I am
interested in getting started.  Please e-mail me Mabelrode@aol.com David
Peters for more information.  I would like to get about 4-5players who
meet about twice a month for campaign involving EPT.

Sincerely 

Mabelrode


From ma3076@irix.bris.ac.uk Tue Mar  7 20:14:14 CST 1995
Article: 106 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk!warwick!bsmail!irix!ma3076
From: ma3076@irix.bris.ac.uk (RHJ. Rees)
Subject: axx
Message-ID: <D50IwA.Hq1@info.bris.ac.uk>
Sender: usenet@info.bris.ac.uk (Usenet news owner)
Nntp-Posting-Host: irix.bris.ac.uk
Organization: University of Bristol, England
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
Date: Mon, 6 Mar 1995 09:40:58 GMT
Lines: 7


How can anyone mistake alt.tekumel for alt.dance???

Does anyone know Dave Morris's e-mail number (if he has one)?

Or if he's reading this, got E ASW 4 today, very cool shame you aren't
personally editing any more.


From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Tue Mar  7 20:14:15 CST 1995
Article: 107 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!pipex!bt!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: WANTED:  Successful Rules Variants
Date: 6 Mar 1995 11:23:27 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 21
Message-ID: <3jerbf$b0t@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

>setnaffa <setnaffa@ix.netcom.com> writes:
 
>Just in case anybody else cares, I have a more or less complete adaptation
>of AD&D, 2nd edition for Tekumel.  It uses the Swords and Glory magic
>system, but there's no reason why AD&D spells couldn't be used if somebody
>wanted to.
>   Warning: I gave up on the effort because I felt the heroic nature of
>AD&D play didn't fit Tekumel too well: an 8th level character will be
>pretty well able to consider taking on entire legions single-handedly...

I'd be interested in these also - how about posting them to the group, and
adding them to one of the WWW sites?  If they were around, people would use 
them.  I've often thought about running my AD&D friends through Tekumel, and
been detered because I didn't really want to teach them all RuneQuest.
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
Information Systems Unit/AA&T                       Tel:01473 644910
BT Labs                                             Fax:01473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------



From sfoster@cix.compulink.co.uk Tue Mar  7 20:14:16 CST 1995
Article: 108 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!uknet!cix.compulink.co.uk!usenet
From: sfoster@cix.compulink.co.uk ("Stephen Foster")
Subject: Re: axx
Message-ID: <D51GIL.1Gn@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Unknown Organization          
References: <D50IwA.Hq1@info.bris.ac.uk>
Date: Mon, 6 Mar 1995 21:47:08 GMT
X-News-Software: Ameol
Lines: 8

No, Dave is not on e-mail (Dave's level of appreciation of technology is 
similar to that of a Tsolyani peasant i.e. he still works on an 8086 and 
thinks its pretty neat!)

If you want to send e-mail to Dave then send it c/o me - he lives close 
by. Any mail for the Eye should be addressed direct to me.

Steve F


From resmith@donald.cc.utexas.edu Tue Mar  7 20:14:16 CST 1995
Article: 109 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!geraldo.cc.utexas.edu!donald.cc.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: resmith@donald.cc.utexas.edu (Robert Smith)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Date: 6 Mar 1995 23:17:50 -0600
Organization: The University of Texas at Austin; Austin, Texas
Lines: 34
Message-ID: <3jgq9u$r1h@donald.cc.utexas.edu>
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com> <Tillek-0603951811280001@dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: donald.cc.utexas.edu

All time best Tekumel event: In a campaign I ran several years ago, the charac-
ters were members of a mechantile clan that had won the Imperial contract to
supply the forces that had just captured Sunraya. After a long trek through the
desert, all the while harassed by Milumanayani tribesmen, they arrived to
find a city in the grips of speculators who controlled the food supplies. The 
characters wanted to observe legality, so instead of using the military to
seize the grain silos, they went to court. The rest of the evening was spent
in court proceedings, as the characters created arguments and precidents to
support their case. It was kind of like the OJ case, only more humorous. They
won their case, but the disgruntled merchants subsequently burned the silos,
eventually forcing the abandonment of the city.

OK, maybe you had to be there, but it was funny at the time.

As a player, one of my most memorable events comes from a dungeon crawl. Our
party was huge (10 PCs plus about 20 slaves). The party was in a long narrow
corridor when disaster struck the front end. My character (a warrior and 
acolyte of Chiteng) and three others (all worshippers of Dlamelish or
Hrihayal) were bringing up the rear. Combat ensued at the front, but we were
blocked. So we fixed ourselves lunch. Followed by a brief sexual encounter
by the D/H types. My character sat by observing and occasionally flicking
hot cinders on the revelers for additional stimulation. Eventually, we donned
our armor and worked our way to the front to strke the final few blows on the
enemy (whatever they were). Many other party members lay bleeding from 
severe wounds. They were not ammused by our tardy arrival and after that our
characters were kept at different ends of the entourage (since we couldn't
behave, we had to be separated).

Worst Momment:
When a huge block of stone fell on the party, flattening everyone except for
a single wimpy priest of Thumis and a slave boy tourch bearer. But there was a
tunnel in the huge block, so the priest crawled in, triggering the second trap,
which retracted the block into the ceiling, leaving the slave boy alone in the 
corridor with the splattered remains of the rest of the party. 


From Tillek@wings.network.com Tue Mar  7 20:14:17 CST 1995
Article: 110 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.moneng.mei.com!uwm.edu!msunews!gmi!srvr1.flint.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!zip.eecs.umich.edu!umn.edu!dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu!user
From: Tillek@wings.network.com (Keith Dalluhn)
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Message-ID: <Tillek-0603951811280001@dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu
Organization: Avanthar inc.
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com>
Date: Mon, 6 Mar 1995 12:11:28 GMT
Lines: 56

In article <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com>, setnaffa@ix.netcom.com
(setnaffa) wrote:

> In order to foment thought and exacerbate the enjoyment this game has 
> created for me (while we await the latest rules), I thought we could 
> tell about out favorite and least favorite moments in the game, . . .
> 
> These two are from a game in 1976:
> 
> Best:  the time I used the Excellent Ruby Eye to stop the execution of a 
> party member by a Ssu warrior...  we managed to escape, but barely.
> 
>      There were a bunch of tourist Ssu traveling through the ruins to 
> the west of Jakalla.  We were outnumbered, out smarted, and about out of 
> luck when I remembered the untested treasure from a previous game.  
> lucky dice rolling gave us enough charges that we could escape back the 
> way that we came.
> 
> Worst:  thirty minutes later when I splashed an underground puddle, only 
> to find out I had irritated a Nshe...  :-)
> 
>      As we rounded a corner barely 100 yards from the outside, I really 
> "put my foot into it."  It hit me once.  I fell down.  Nuff said.


Jeez, there are a LOT of favorite times for me.  Different times for
different characters.  For Sanjesh hiKirisaya, my favorite moment was at
the battle of Sunraya when I got shoved in front of a cohort of Red
Devestation, and Karim Missum raced me to the top of the wall, and I won. 
Worst moment was when Chirisan and I got stuck on a way out sideplane,
Chirisan rolled for divine intervention and got Sarku.  Sarku asks what we
want.  I tell him that we would like to be placed back on our own plane at
our own time.  Sarku asks what we offer, Chirisan points to me, and says,
"Take the Thumis priest!" 

For Sunchan hi Soruna, priest of Dlamelish, it would be the time he got to
go to a party with the princess Ma'in, and ended up sleeping with her. 
Yep, he did, just ask him.

But to be honest, the REALLY best times are those when something happens
that you may have not even had a part in.  Being at an auction at Gidj and
son when a princess was auctioned off only to have her end up being bought
by her own husband,  or the party at the college at the end of time where
the immortals come and go and you can see them interact.  

And by FAR the VERY VERY best times are those when you are able to figure
out something new.  Like the combination of the crystal claw, and the
golden butterfly, or the use and workings of an interfoggulator, or even
knowing where the hall of the gods is located.  

Some of the MY favorite times on Tekumel have nothing to do with hacking
and slashing, or casting spells, or any other high adventure stunts.  I
can remember nights where we spent till one in the morning doing nothing
but attending a party, and never rolled a single die.  Knowing your
character, and knowing what he or she will do in any instance is the MOST
fun I have on Tekumel.


From NWRIGHT@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU Tue Mar  7 20:14:19 CST 1995
Article: 111 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.moneng.mei.com!uwm.edu!msunews!gmi!srvr1.flint.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!jobone!ukma!news.uky.edu!MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU
From: "Nathan the Magic Wish-Granting Cow" <NWRIGHT@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: an interested party
Date: 06 MAR 95 19:50:50 EST
Organization: Transylvania University
Lines: 14
Sender: usenet@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU
Message-ID: <06MAR95.21435292.0015@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: music.transy.edu

Hello all, this is my first time posting anything to any newsgroup, so
please bear with me. :) I've heard a great deal about the great setting
and fabulous detail of the world of Tekumel, and I've been interested
in procuring some information on it for some time.  Could somebody
please tell me what I would need to get to have a sort of working
knowledge of Tekumel, and also what products are even available right
now?  I have heard somewhere that a major revision of EPT is currently
in the works, is this true?  If so, when is it going to be released?
Anyways, any information would be much appreciated. :) Thanks!

Nathan Wright, one of the ranks of the computer illiterate horde





From cheng@pentagon.io.com Tue Mar  7 20:14:20 CST 1995
Article: 112 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!nobody
From: cheng@pentagon.io.com (David Cheng)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Of Tekumel
Date: 7 Mar 1995 13:21:14 -0600
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 20
Message-ID: <3jibna$m47@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com
Summary: What is the possessive form of Tekumel?

What is the possessive form of Tekumel, if anyone knows?
We've kicked around "Tekumelani", "Tekumelyani", and "Tekumeli".

In case I'm not using the proper term, here's an example:

"The appearance of many Tekumelyani humans is much like that of Earth's
 Meso-American natives..."

{That sounds like a pretty bad sentence in itself, but it's the best
 I can think of off the top of my head.  Sorry.}

Any suggestions would be appreciated.

Best,
-DC


-- 
* David Cheng          cheng@io.com  <or>  drcheng@sales.stern.nyu.edu
  (212) 472-7752 [before midnite EST]


From jmedway@cs.utexas.edu Tue Mar  7 20:14:20 CST 1995
Article: 113 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: jmedway@cs.utexas.edu (John Joseph Medway)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Date: 7 Mar 1995 13:57:05 -0600
Organization: CS Dept, University of Texas at Austin
Lines: 61
Message-ID: <3jidqh$1qce@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu>
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com> <Tillek-0603951811280001@dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu> <3jgq9u$r1h@donald.cc.utexas.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu

Damn! Rob beat me to both of the things I was going to mention.

Robert Smith <resmith@donald.cc.utexas.edu> wrote:
...
>seize the grain silos, they went to court. The rest of the evening was spent
>in court proceedings, as the characters created arguments and precidents to
>support their case. It was kind of like the OJ case, only more humorous. They

Actually, we never played beyond the dinner of that or the next evening.
At that dinner, a slave mentioned that there was something of which we 
ought to be aware, and as we looked out on the city, we saw the burning 
silos.

And we thought we only had the Yan Kor to deal with!


>corridor when disaster struck the front end. My character (a warrior and 
>acolyte of Chiteng) and three others (all worshippers of Dlamelish or
>Hrihayal) were bringing up the rear. Combat ensued at the front, but we were

Actually, I was an warrior and acolyte of Chiteng (with Hrihayalish 
tendencies, I suppose), and you were a Vimulha worshipper, apparently 
with Hrihayalish tendencies as well. Our fearless leader had planted 
us in the very back of the party, in response to what he mistakenly 
construed as uppitiness, but which was simply a result of our seeking
to behave as proper in our station (upperclass fops).


>blocked. So we fixed ourselves lunch. Followed by a brief sexual encounter
>by the D/H types. My character sat by observing and occasionally flicking
>hot cinders on the revelers for additional stimulation. Eventually, we donned
>our armor and worked our way to the front to strke the final few blows on the

The groans and exclamations which came from the would-be leader of the 
group, and from the GM as well were priceless: "Lunch? *LUNCH*?!?!"
and "You're *donning* your armor? You mean you didn't have it *on*!?" 

We even spent a round or two making sure each others plumes were straight!
We of course, dispatched all of the remaining Bad Guys, much to the fawning
appreciation of the non-combatants, including the Dlamelish and Hrihayal
priestesses.


>enemy (whatever they were). Many other party members lay bleeding from 
>severe wounds. They were not ammused by our tardy arrival and after that our
>characters were kept at different ends of the entourage (since we couldn't
>behave, we had to be separated).

Silly of Gordon to have put us in the rear. We were the two most competent 
fighters by a long shot.



---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| jmedway@cs.utexas.edu  |  University of Texas @ Austin  |  512.292.2325 |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Try to remember that even though it may appear to be the only solution  |
| to the problem, strangulation is both illegal and somewhat undignified. |
|                  -- from the comic strip "Sally Forth"                  |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------



From jmedway@cs.utexas.edu Tue Mar  7 20:14:21 CST 1995
Article: 114 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: jmedway@cs.utexas.edu (John Joseph Medway)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Date: 7 Mar 1995 14:20:11 -0600
Organization: CS Dept, University of Texas at Austin
Lines: 37
Message-ID: <3jif5r$204f@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu>
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com> <Tillek-0603951811280001@dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu> <3jgq9u$r1h@donald.cc.utexas.edu> <3jidqh$1qce@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu


Another fine mess, though with a different group:

Two of us were playing slaves, who were part of a military scouting 
force on the north west frontier. We sauntered into a box canyon, like 
total idiots, and had our retreat cut off by a similar force of Red Hats.

Our Impervious leader used us as messengers, since the other slave and I 
knew Mu'uglavyani. After about 4 laps back & forth between the two groups,
we started talking with each other on the way, and decided to have some 
fun, by deliberately mis-translating, but speaking in broken Mu'uglavyani 
and feigning that we did not understand, etc. 

We had great fun translating things like "Let us discuss these matters 
over dinner." to "Our commander wishes to 'dine on you'.", and "we come 
empty of harmful intent" to "we come of harm intent.", etc.

Eventually one of our priests got wise (as the Red Hats were armoring up 
and shouting, in response to a peac entreaty) and cast a Clairaudience 
spell on the two of us as we were walking across the 50 yard gap. 

The next message to the Red Hats was written. Uh-oh. We were illiterate.
It said something to the effect that "We apologize for any misunderstanding
we have been having. These two slaves have been taking liberties with our 
words and yours. Please take them both and do as you wish."

The reply was tatooed and branded into our backs.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| jmedway@cs.utexas.edu  |  University of Texas @ Austin  |  512.292.2325 |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Try to remember that even though it may appear to be the only solution  |
| to the problem, strangulation is both illegal and somewhat undignified. |
|                  -- from the comic strip "Sally Forth"                  |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------



From quasar@winternet.com Sat Mar 11 09:01:52 CST 1995
Article: 115 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!news.rtd.com!news.primenet.com!news.sprintlink.net!cs.utexas.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!caen!zip.eecs.umich.edu!umn.edu!dialup-1-51.gw.umn.edu!user
From: quasar@winternet.com (K. Fitzgerald)
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Message-ID: <quasar-0703950013180001@dialup-1-51.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-1-51.gw.umn.edu
Organization: University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
X-Newsreader: Value-Added NewsWatcher 2.0b24.0+
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Mar 1995 06:13:18 GMT
Lines: 56

In article <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com>, setnaffa@ix.netcom.com
(setnaffa) wrote:

> In order to foment thought and exacerbate the enjoyment this game has 
> created for me (while we await the latest rules), I thought we could 
> tell about out favorite and least favorite moments in the game, . . .

*rubs hands together gleefully*

Ah, it's hard to chose after playing EPT for nearly *gasp* nine years...
but here goes.

Best moment...

There are two that come to mind, those in the group will remember them
with amusement.  I was playing a rather misunderstood Vimuhla priestess
names Shenesa who was never taken very seriously.  She'd taken up the
hobby of sampling 'mash' brandy in every village and town we stopped in
for the night.  In the party was one Heketh, a rather handsome and stout
warrior Vimuhla.  Using her skills at persuasion they ended up imbibing
together at night.  On one particular night it seems that they were both
in their cups and started... err... having a good time in the middle of
the Sakbe road.  Passerbys and members of the party began taking bets on
who would have more satisfaction from this... (Postnote, that warrior
Heketh is now my husband in real life. :) )

The second incident concerned a Thumis priest who travelled with us (name
withheld to protect the guilty).  He is of a scholarly nature and could
always be found poking about old books or devices of the ancients.  We
arrived in a ruined city during one adventure and he wandered off to
investigate some glass booths that we discovered.  Think of these as vr
rooms where you can be taken into a dream world that seems very real. 
These particular booths were programmed by the Hokun as pleasure booths...
the rest I'm sure you can imagine.

Worst moment...

Ah, there have been a few of these also.  The worst concerned my little
misunderstood priestess Shenesa.  Kerdu Karim Missum, may the glory of the
fire always remain his, wanted to help remove the taint from Shenesa after
her dialance with the demon Gereshma'a.  Unfortunatly she didn't quite
realize that going through the ritual of fire with this taint would mean
the end of her mortal existance and she would be taken to Vimuhla himself
(hell as far as she was concerned in all the fire and brimstone manner of
speaking).  She went through the ceremony, everyone in the party was happy
to have the Sarku taint removed, and poof, she was like gone. 
(postscript... she was returned some time later from Vimuhla hell and
given back to Gereshma'a for some obsurd reason where she lives to this
day as his consort on a side plane, the perfect hostess for all that come
and visit.  I personally feel that the big V got either a) tired of her
whining, or b) tired of her lack of denden skills.)

-- 
K. Fitzgerald     quasar@winternet.com
-----
Favorite Quote:  "Honeeee!  I'm going out to play with the boys tonight!"


From gauntlet@bga.com Sat Mar 11 09:01:52 CST 1995
Article: 116 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!bga.com!gauntlet
From: gauntlet@bga.com (Jeff)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Date: 8 Mar 1995 07:09:37 GMT
Organization: Real/Time Communications - Bob Gustwick and Associates
Lines: 45
Message-ID: <3jjl7h$s7l@giga.bga.com>
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com> <Tillek-0603951811280001@dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu> <3jgq9u$r1h@donald.cc.utexas.edu> <3jidqh$1qce@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu> <3jif5r$204f@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ghostwheel.bga.com
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]


Here are a couple of the best stories from Tekumel games I ran. Sadly, 
the character names are lost in the mists of time:

On one occasion, the players were involved in a battle in a tower which 
stood on a small island in the middle of a river. During the battle, the 
enemy aimed an Excellent Ruby Eye at them. In self-defense, they did 
something to crush it. It malfunctioned, emitting a fast-hardening red 
foam which quickly filled the chamber, and then the rest of the tower, 
and then began spilling out the windows. They got out just in time. By 
the time it finally stopped, the foam had hardened into a 'dam' across 
the river... which was *upriver* from their village, causing the river to 
stop flowing, much to the chagrin of the local fishing clan, resulting 
in a shift in the village's economy for which the players were blamed. 
Dutifully, they quested after an Eye to dispel the red barrier. They 
found one, and unblocked the river. The resulting flood wiped their 
village out completely.

On another occasion, a PC midget priest of Hrihayal of very low station 
managed to pull of a request for divine intervention. Another PC, a Shen 
warrior, had just given his life to save everyone, and the little priest 
asked Hrihayal to restore him to life. So the Shen warrior is standing 
there in Shen Heaven waiting upon his deity (the One Who Rends) and up 
slinks this little scantily-clad human girl, who drapes herself around 
The One Who Rends, whispering sweet nothings in his ear and scritching 
him under the chin. Then suddenly, wonders of wonders, the Shen warrior's 
body stirs and awakens. As a sign of Hrihayal's visitation, the midget 
priest recieved a 'birthmark' in the shape of a pair of purple lip-prints 
on his left buttock. Thus ensued a lot of mooning as the little priest 
went around displaying Hrihayal's Kiss as proof of these events, to 
whoever doubted his story.

Worst moment? I'd have to say it was the adventure I played in where the 
players were sent to inspect a piece of real-estate that their clan had 
forgotten they owned for a few hundred years. When we got there, we 
discovered that there was a zoological preserve there. And nothing else! 
Not even anything to do. The entire episode consisted of walking around 
the zoo, having Tekumelyani animals described to us. To this day, we 
still refer to any particularly boring episode as a 'Trip To The Zoo'.

WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW

        gauntlet@bga.com        Sic Gorgiamus Subjectatus Allos Nunc

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM


From slp@uno.edu Sat Mar 11 09:01:53 CST 1995
Article: 117 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!convex!darwin.sura.net!www.uno.edu!uno.edu!SLP
From: slp@uno.edu
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: New EPT Rules Update
Date: 7 Mar 1995 16:59:42 GMT
Organization: University of New Orleans
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <3ji3du$jt4@www.uno.edu>
References: <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com>,<bark002-0203952003320001@dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu>
Reply-To: slp@uno.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: jazz.ucc.uno.edu

In article <bark002-0203952003320001@dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu>, bark002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker) writes:
>In article <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com>, mabelrode@aol.com
>(Mabelrode) wrote:
>
>>      What is the status of the New rules for EPT?
>> 
>> 
>> Sincerely
>> 
>> Mabelrode
>
>Theater of the Mind will issue a completely new set of rules in April of
>1995.  We are now waiting for the completion of a brand new map that is
>being produced.
>
>M.A.R. Barker

Professor Barker,

I'm glad to find out you're on the Net, I only recently discovered
alt.games.frp.tekumel, and I wondered if you participated.  I've heard a
lot of hearsay about how things were going with you (though not much
since Curtis Scott's death), of course I'd prefer to hear straight from
the mouth of the Bazhaq [;-), did I spell that right?].  If you've the 
time and are inclined (AND assuming you even remember me), I'd like to 
hear how you've been and what's new.

Best,
 
Stephen Posey
User Services Consultant
University Computing and Communications
University of New Orleans
New Orleans, LA 70148
USA
Phone    : (504)286-6396
FAX      : (504)286-6348
Internet : SLP@uno.edu


From Jonathan.marshall@anthropology.su.edu.au Sat Mar 11 09:01:54 CST 1995
Article: 118 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.duke.edu!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!usenet.eel.ufl.edu!gmi!msunews!harbinger.cc.monash.edu.au!merlin!mel.dit.csiro.au!its.csiro.au!dmssyd.syd.dms.CSIRO.AU!metro!mac_5_net_78-133.atalk.arts.su.oz.au!user
From: Jonathan.marshall@anthropology.su.edu.au (jonM)
Subject: Re: Tekumel Rule Sets
Message-ID: <Jonathan.marshall-0303951414450001@mac_5_net_78-133.atalk.arts.su.oz.au>
Sender: news@ucc.su.OZ.AU
Nntp-Posting-Host: mac_5_net_78-133.atalk.arts.su.oz.au
Organization: anthropology. university of sydney
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 1995 03:14:30 GMT
Lines: 30

In article <3ia8r3$bti@mace.cc.purdue.edu>, stevem@mace.cc.purdue.edu
(Steve M) wrote:

> Hello,
>         I have always been intrugued with Prof. Barker's world ever
> since I breifly played in a game in the late '70s using the first rule
> set. In the intervening time I have been very involved in writing
> roleplaying games, from my own campaign. But everytime I look back at
> EPT I see this excellent worl, rich in history and tradition, but
> saddled with an older, first generation rule system.
> 
>         The idea of joining my
> rules sytem, which has over 1200 playtest sessions, with his excelent
> background seems very attractive.
>                                 thanx
>                                         Daniel Lawrence
>                                         dan@mdbs.com





Is it possible for you to give some description, outline of your rules?
Anything would be better than `swords and glory' or the old D&D type rules
(Gurps isn't my favourite systems either)

The rules give flavour to the world. Tekumel needs a dedicated system.


jon


From bark002@maroon.tc.umn.edu Sat Mar 11 09:01:54 CST 1995
Article: 119 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.duke.edu!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!usenet.eel.ufl.edu!gmi!srvr1.flint.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!zip.eecs.umich.edu!umn.edu!dialup-4-77.gw.umn.edu!user
From: bark002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker)
Subject: Testing
Message-ID: <bark002-0903951951060001@dialup-4-77.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-4-77.gw.umn.edu
Organization: University of Minnesota
X-Newsreader: Value-Added NewsWatcher 2.0b24.0+
Date: Fri, 10 Mar 1995 01:51:06 GMT
Lines: 1

Trying a new newsreader.


From barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu Sat Mar 11 09:01:55 CST 1995
Article: 120 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.duke.edu!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!usenet.eel.ufl.edu!gmi!srvr1.flint.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!zip.eecs.umich.edu!umn.edu!dialup-4-77.gw.umn.edu!user
From: barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker)
Subject: Re: Of Tekumel
Message-ID: <barke002-0903952000370001@dialup-4-77.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-4-77.gw.umn.edu
Organization: University of Minnesota
X-Newsreader: Value-Added NewsWatcher 2.0b24.0+
References: <3jibna$m47@pentagon.io.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Mar 1995 02:00:37 GMT
Lines: 9

In article <3jibna$m47@pentagon.io.com>, cheng@pentagon.io.com (David
Cheng) wrote:

> What is the possessive form of Tekumel, if anyone knows?
> We've kicked around "Tekumelani", "Tekumelyani", and "Tekumeli".
> 
The proper term is Tekumeláni. Some dialects use Tekumelyáni, but that is
not the modern idiom. All others are incorrect, according to Tsolyáni
grammar.


From fschiff@news.dorsai.org Sat Mar 11 09:01:55 CST 1995
Article: 121 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!news.sprintlink.net!news.dorsai.org!fschiff
From: fschiff@news.dorsai.org (Fred Schiff)
Subject: Tome
Message-ID: <D5963v.IFA@dorsai.org>
Sender: news@dorsai.org (Keeper of the News)
Organization: The Dorsai Embassy - New York
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 1995 01:43:06 GMT
Lines: 8

Just a note to everyone, please, please support TOME by buying the new
game system or else TOME will stop making Tekumel products.  I have spoken

Fred

:)




From pmac@pentagon.io.com Sat Mar 11 09:01:56 CST 1995
Article: 122 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!pentagon.io.com!pmac
From: pmac@pentagon.io.com (Phillip McGregor)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tome
Date: 11 Mar 1995 08:22:04 -0600
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 28
Message-ID: <pmac.794931292@pentagon.io.com>
References: <D5963v.IFA@dorsai.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com
X-Newsreader: NN version 6.5.0 #2 (NOV)

fschiff@news.dorsai.org (Fred Schiff) writes:

>Just a note to everyone, please, please support TOME by buying the new
>game system or else TOME will stop making Tekumel products.  I have spoken

>Fred

Well, they might try *advertising* it! I only realised that it might be 
being released when I happenedd yto check out the bibliography in the 
recent Pyramid article of GURPS Tekumel ... and noted that the rules 
system was (c) 1995. I immediately wrote to TOME and asked for details, 
and got a flyer back about a week ago ... but I was *supposed* to *be* 
ontheir mailing list *already*. Where has it been advertised in advance?

Also, I suspect that the asking price is too steep. The US$ 44 converts 
to AUD$97, allowing for purchase through a game shop (most boxed game 
systems locally would sell for AUD$40 to $50) ... and isn't it expensive 
even for the US Consumer? Why not sell the GMs and Players' guides 
separately *as well* as having a boxed set?

If they want to sell the game, they have to let people *know* it's 
available -- and they should look at their marketing policies to try and 
get the p[roice down if at all possible!

Phil McGregor

(aspqrz@sydney.dialix.oz.au)



From quasar@icicle.winternet.com Mon Mar 13 11:35:21 CST 1995
Article: 123 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.fc.net!infoman.net99.net!ns2.MainStreet.Net!ddsw1!godot.cc.duq.edu!news.duke.edu!convex!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!in1.uu.net!winternet.com!news
From: quasar@icicle.winternet.com (K. Fitzgerald)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Worst Moments...
Date: 10 Mar 1995 21:58:53 GMT
Organization: StarNet Communications, Inc
Lines: 45
Message-ID: <3jqi2t$ed4@blackice.winternet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: host-75.dialup.winternet.com
X-Posted-From: InterNews 1.0.6b1@host-75.dialup.winternet.com
X-Authenticated: quasar on POP host icicle.winternet.com

Okay, I've a brand new worst moment.  Feedback for this delima would
really be appreciated...

We are trapped, and I mean literally trapped on a plan with no magic
whatsoever.  Magic is a myth, magic is something that might have
happened when the gods still favored this plane.

Now for the crux... my character - through a combination of stupid and
heroic actions - is now ashes from the funeral pyre where she was laid
to rest after her fall from the cliff.  Yes, it was heroic to save
another member of the party from the giant beetle and yes, it was
stupid to make a leap for the rope and miss falling down the side of
the cliff to my death some 7 hours later. *wince, that hurt too btw*.

Here is the problem... no magic, no revivification.  No magic, no nexus
point to return to the correct plane, no revivification.

I'm interested to know how those of you that play in the world of
Tekumel would handle this, either as a player or a referee.  It's got
me absolutely befuddled and I've about reached the conclusion that
there is no way out.

Here are some tidbits that might help/hinder your ideas...

1)  The 'one other' rules this plane.
2)  The magic users 'fade' due to the lack of magic
3)  When the magic users consume bone dust of the ancients they stop
fading.
4)  The society is based on rather mercenary means - all monetary
5)  The gods 'left' here because of dissatisfaction?
6)  The gods are nice and sweet and seem to be rather token.
7)  Ganga never sank
8)  Avanthar isn't the thriving metropolis that it is on the main
trunk, it's ruins with a village there.  Bey Su is the main seat of the
empire.

Lost and quite dead...
Ashiyan heVessuma
Kasi, Legion of Ketl



=====================================================================
K. Fitzgerald             "Honeeee, can I go out and play with the
quasar@winternet.com      boys tonight???"


From rdushay@delphi.com Mon Mar 13 11:35:21 CST 1995
Article: 124 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: WANTED:  Successful Rules Variants
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 95 15:32:57 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 22
Message-ID: <xyx4u0J.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3jerbf$b0t@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: Roger Pearse <rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk>

Roger Pearse <rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk> writes:
 
>>Just in case anybody else cares, I have a more or less complete adaptation
>>of AD&D, 2nd edition for Tekumel.  It uses the Swords and Glory magic
>>system, but there's no reason why AD&D spells couldn't be used if somebody
>>wanted to.
 
 
 
>I'd be interested in these also - how about posting them to the group, and
>adding them to one of the WWW sites?  If they were around, people would use 
>them.  I've often thought about running my AD&D friends through Tekumel, and
>been detered because I didn't really want to teach them all RuneQuest.
 
I'll be glad to post them here.  It will take a little while to format
them so they'll look okay.  As for the WWW, maybe Brett has them on his
page?  They were posted to the Tekumel Digest back when he moderated it.
Brett?
 
                                               --Bob Dushay
                                      Dritlan, The Legion of Obscure Books
                                      1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From rdushay@delphi.com Mon Mar 13 11:35:22 CST 1995
Article: 125 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 95 15:49:19 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 15
Message-ID: <5S7YW8P.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com> <Tillek-0603951811280001@dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu> <3jgq9u$r1h@donald.cc.utexas.edu> <3jidqh$1qce@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu> <3jif5r$204f@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu> <3jjl7h$s7l@giga.bga.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: Jeff <gauntlet@bga.com>

My best moments occured as GM, not as player.  The party was sailing to
Salarvya, and one of their fellow passengers was a totally useless fop
>from  the Clan of Sea Blue.  He had just deserted from the legion of Sarqu,
Sword of the Empire, because they had failed to pay him sufficient deference.
He was arrogant, boorish, boring, effeminate, selfish, and clueless.
One brave party member endured his drivel for the whole voyage, taking it
totally upon himself to keep his lordship entertained, while the rest of
the party voted on whether to throw his lordship overboard or simply to
turn him over to the authorities in Salarvya to have him properly impaled.
Instead, when they arrived, they turned him over to a branch of the clan
in Tsatsayagga.  The long suffering PC said, "I'm hiring a couple of
priestesses of Dlamelish or Shiringgayi, buying a keg of wine, and not
coming out of my room for 2 days."  He did not include his fellow party
members.
   I guess you just had to be there, too.


From rdushay@delphi.com Mon Mar 13 11:35:22 CST 1995
Article: 126 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: an interested party
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 95 16:05:22 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <xQ9aeCC.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <06MAR95.21435292.0015@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: "Nathan the Magic Wish-Granting Cow" <NWRIGHT@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU>

"Nathan the Magic Wish-Granting Cow" <NWRIGHT@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU> writes:
 
>and fabulous detail of the world of Tekumel, and I've been interested
>in procuring some information on it for some time.  Could somebody
>please tell me what I would need to get to have a sort of working
>knowledge of Tekumel, and also what products are even available right
 
This is actually a good question for the FAQ: which materials should a
beginner read to get started, and in which order?  These items should be
in print or easily available, if possible...
 
In my humble opinion, you should consider the following:
1. The old Swords and Glory, Vol 1. sourcebook is THE place to learn about
Tekumel.  It is out of print, but Different Worlds broke it up into three
pieces and sold the first two of these.  The DW sourcebook, Volumes 1 and 2
are listed on TOME's current price list, so they should still be around.
Warning: these are written like college anthropology books, and they are
a bit dry, but fascinating reading.  Highly recommende.
 
2. The rules for the new game, and the associated solo adventure books
will give you a good feel for the world, but they don't have the breadth
or detail of the sourcebooks.  Still, they are easier to read, and more
helpful for gaming.
   Adventures on Tekumel, Vol. 1.  Character Generation.
   Adventures on Tekumel, Vol. 2, parts 1,2,3.  Solo adventures.
   Tekumel Bestiary.  A great book: tells of all the creatures and gives
        a good taste of the world.  If you can't get the sourcebook, this
        volume helps fill out the information from the Adventures books.
 
  These are all in print, and available from TOME.
 
3. The new rules, of course,should make it complete enough.
 
TOME:  610-935-7622
 
                                               --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From rdushay@delphi.com Mon Mar 13 11:35:23 CST 1995
Article: 127 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Of Tekumel
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 95 16:14:32 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 17
Message-ID: <5y+Ye2A.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3jibna$m47@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: David Cheng <cheng@pentagon.io.com>

David Cheng <cheng@pentagon.io.com> writes:
 
>What is the possessive form of Tekumel, if anyone knows?
>We've kicked around "Tekumelani", "Tekumelyani", and "Tekumeli".
 
I read somewhere, I can't find it now, that the rule is "add 'i' when a
word ends in a consonant and 'yani' when it ends in a vowel".  By this
rule, the proper word would be Tekumeli, but there are exceptions to the
rule.  I think "Tekumelyani" sounds best, myself.
 
According to the Tsolayni dictionary, the possessive is a suffix "mra".
"Tekumelmrakoi" sounds even worse then your alterantives, and it's probably
the wrong word, anyway.
 
                                               --Bob Dushay
                                       Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                       1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From alberti@riverside.mr.net Mon Mar 13 11:35:23 CST 1995
Article: 128 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!in1.uu.net!mr.net!riverside.mr.net!alberti
From: alberti@riverside.mr.net (Bob Alberti)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: New EPT Rules Update
Date: 11 Mar 1995 21:55:22 GMT
Organization: Tsolyani Light and Magic
Lines: 22
Message-ID: <3jt68a$ph8@cedar.mr.net>
References: <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com> <bark002-0203952003320001@dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu> <3je9ek$s87@crl6.crl.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: riverside.mr.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Jonathan Zamick (lfiction@crl.com) wrote:
: barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker) writes:
: >Theater of the Mind will issue a completely new set of rules in April of
: >1995.  We are now waiting for the completion of a brand new map that is
: >being produced.

: >M.A.R. Barker

: Is it true, did they manage to drag Professor Barker back to the computer?

I will humbly claim the credit/blame for this one...  I stopped by his
house last week, strongarmed him into my car, and frog-marched him into
Computer City where I forced him to buy a 28,800 modem.

I then loaded his computer with all sorts of software and left him
staring glumly at this new time-sink in his life.

Unfortunately he has managed to figure out a lot of the software, despite
my best efforts to leave him in confusion.  Soon he will begin to post
regular messages, and all my efforts to promote the Temple of Ksarul through
misinformation and propaganda will come to nought.



From alberti@riverside.mr.net Mon Mar 13 11:35:24 CST 1995
Article: 129 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!uwm.edu!caen!zip.eecs.umich.edu!newshost.marcam.com!uunet!in1.uu.net!mr.net!riverside.mr.net!alberti
From: alberti@riverside.mr.net (Bob Alberti)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Worst Moments...
Date: 11 Mar 1995 22:06:00 GMT
Organization: Minnesota Regional Network
Lines: 66
Message-ID: <3jt6s8$ph8@cedar.mr.net>
References: <3jqi2t$ed4@blackice.winternet.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: riverside.mr.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

K. Fitzgerald (quasar@icicle.winternet.com) wrote:
: ...after her fall from the cliff.  Yes, it was heroic to save
: another member of the party from the giant beetle

Hey!  I had the situation WELL IN HAND!  By allowing the dlaqo
to bite my leg I was LULLING him into a FALSE SENSE of SECURITY!

I was preparing to SPRING my TRAP upon him by scrabbling about
the floor screaming "HALP!  HAAALP!" when you and Arumel showed
up and threw a monkeywrench into the works!

: Here is the problem... no magic, no revivification.  No magic, no nexus
: point to return to the correct plane, no revivification.

As Kim points out, this really bites.

: 1)  The 'one other' rules this plane.

Actually the One Other and She both seem to be worshipped here, but
while powerful they remain underground (socially, not physically) AND
their magic/energy/whatever is entirely useless to us.

: 2)  The magic users 'fade' due to the lack of magic

No, those of us who are not natural, but are un-naturally constituted,
are fading.  I'm sewn into the wrong body, Vai is probably a demon, 
and Ais is a re-animated daughter of a Fisherman-Kings sorceror...

: 3)  When the magic users consume bone dust of the ancients they stop
: fading.

And let me tell you, it tastes great.  Bone dust at breakfast, again at
lunch, and a sensible dinner, and I've lost 20 pounds!

: 4)  The society is based on rather mercenary means - all monetary

Damn capitalists.

: 5)  The gods 'left' here because of dissatisfaction?

I think the phenomenon of a global thickening of the Skin of Reality
makes the plane uninteresting or inaccessible to them.  But why are the
Pariah's here?  I don't know...

: 6)  The gods are nice and sweet and seem to be rather token.

Yeah, nothing like paying 2 Hlash for a tour of the Inner Temple of 
Ksarul and a free ancient relic of your choice...

: 7)  Ganga never sank

We think.  We'll find out when we reach Jakalla and it's not on a coast.

: 8)  Avanthar isn't the thriving metropolis that it is on the main
: trunk, it's ruins with a village there.  Bey Su is the main seat of the
: empire.

And all around it's kinda sucky.  They don't even practice Imperial Seclusion.
I was so disgusted... "Oh, yes, that's the Empress!"  Feh.

: Lost and quite dead...
: Ashiyan heVessuma
: Kasi, Legion of Ketl

Pity is, Ashyan was one of your characters I actually liked...  quiet,
competent, and knew her place.  Tsk.


From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Mon Mar 13 11:35:24 CST 1995
Article: 130 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!bt!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tome
Date: 13 Mar 1995 09:05:02 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 31
Message-ID: <3k11ru$50u@news.bt.net>
References: <D5963v.IFA@dorsai.org> <pmac.794931292@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

In article <pmac.794931292@pentagon.io.com>, pmac@pentagon.io.com says...
>
>fschiff@news.dorsai.org (Fred Schiff) writes:
>
>>Just a note to everyone, please, please support TOME by buying the new
>>game system or else TOME will stop making Tekumel products.  I have spoken
>
>Well, they might try *advertising* it! 

Couldn't agree more.  There must be any number of ex-EPT'ers out there who 
don't know that stuff is coming out.  I would have thought that an Ad in the 
Dragon would be pretty sensible: it is, after all, an ex-TSR product, and 
many old-time D&D'ers will have heard of it.

But has there been *any* advertising at all?

>Also, I suspect that the asking price is too steep.

Now here I'm not so sure.  I doubt that the price puts off many people.  
After all, most of us are going to be earners, already interested, and I 
really doubt that the number buying is that elastic (within reason, of 
course).  I know that I would buy the TOME EPT stuff if it were double the 
price.  The gamebooks have been very cheap, and excellent value.

I'd like to know what happened to the Fasiltum adventure in Vol II part III. 
Anyone know why it was dropped?

On a different note, I heard rumours ages ago that someone had done a 
Tsolyani Font.  Is there any issue with copyright in turning the scripts in 
S&G into fonts, e.g. TrueType ones?  It is, after all, easy enough to do.



From nfalstein@aol.com Mon Mar 13 11:35:25 CST 1995
Article: 131 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!uhog.mit.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!news.umass.edu!caen!zip.eecs.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsjunkie.ans.net!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: nfalstein@aol.com (NFalstein)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tome
Date: 13 Mar 1995 11:39:40 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 6
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3k1sgc$8ae@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
References: <3k11ru$50u@news.bt.net>
Reply-To: nfalstein@aol.com (NFalstein)
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf02.mail.aol.com

>Also, I suspect that the asking price is too steep.

Ah, but that's been true since the first release.  It's always taken a lot
of kaitars to enter Jakalla in style!
--- Noah Falstein ---
nfalstein@aol.com


From rdushay@delphi.com Mon Mar 13 11:44:27 CST 1995
Article: 125 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Best/Worst Moments on Tekumel?
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 95 15:49:19 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 15
Message-ID: <5S7YW8P.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3j8pvg$gi4@ixnews2.ix.netcom.com> <Tillek-0603951811280001@dialup-4-23.gw.umn.edu> <3jgq9u$r1h@donald.cc.utexas.edu> <3jidqh$1qce@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu> <3jif5r$204f@babyhuey.cs.utexas.edu> <3jjl7h$s7l@giga.bga.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: Jeff <gauntlet@bga.com>

My best moments occured as GM, not as player.  The party was sailing to
Salarvya, and one of their fellow passengers was a totally useless fop
>from  the Clan of Sea Blue.  He had just deserted from the legion of Sarqu,
Sword of the Empire, because they had failed to pay him sufficient deference.
He was arrogant, boorish, boring, effeminate, selfish, and clueless.
One brave party member endured his drivel for the whole voyage, taking it
totally upon himself to keep his lordship entertained, while the rest of
the party voted on whether to throw his lordship overboard or simply to
turn him over to the authorities in Salarvya to have him properly impaled.
Instead, when they arrived, they turned him over to a branch of the clan
in Tsatsayagga.  The long suffering PC said, "I'm hiring a couple of
priestesses of Dlamelish or Shiringgayi, buying a keg of wine, and not
coming out of my room for 2 days."  He did not include his fellow party
members.
   I guess you just had to be there, too.


From rdushay@delphi.com Mon Mar 13 11:44:27 CST 1995
Article: 126 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: an interested party
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 95 16:05:22 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <xQ9aeCC.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <06MAR95.21435292.0015@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: "Nathan the Magic Wish-Granting Cow" <NWRIGHT@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU>

"Nathan the Magic Wish-Granting Cow" <NWRIGHT@MUSIC.TRANSY.EDU> writes:
 
>and fabulous detail of the world of Tekumel, and I've been interested
>in procuring some information on it for some time.  Could somebody
>please tell me what I would need to get to have a sort of working
>knowledge of Tekumel, and also what products are even available right
 
This is actually a good question for the FAQ: which materials should a
beginner read to get started, and in which order?  These items should be
in print or easily available, if possible...
 
In my humble opinion, you should consider the following:
1. The old Swords and Glory, Vol 1. sourcebook is THE place to learn about
Tekumel.  It is out of print, but Different Worlds broke it up into three
pieces and sold the first two of these.  The DW sourcebook, Volumes 1 and 2
are listed on TOME's current price list, so they should still be around.
Warning: these are written like college anthropology books, and they are
a bit dry, but fascinating reading.  Highly recommende.
 
2. The rules for the new game, and the associated solo adventure books
will give you a good feel for the world, but they don't have the breadth
or detail of the sourcebooks.  Still, they are easier to read, and more
helpful for gaming.
   Adventures on Tekumel, Vol. 1.  Character Generation.
   Adventures on Tekumel, Vol. 2, parts 1,2,3.  Solo adventures.
   Tekumel Bestiary.  A great book: tells of all the creatures and gives
        a good taste of the world.  If you can't get the sourcebook, this
        volume helps fill out the information from the Adventures books.
 
  These are all in print, and available from TOME.
 
3. The new rules, of course,should make it complete enough.
 
TOME:  610-935-7622
 
                                               --Bob Dushay
                                         Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                         1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From rdushay@delphi.com Mon Mar 13 11:44:28 CST 1995
Article: 127 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Robert Dushay <rdushay@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Of Tekumel
Date: Sat, 11 Mar 95 16:14:32 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 17
Message-ID: <5y+Ye2A.rdushay@delphi.com>
References: <3jibna$m47@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: David Cheng <cheng@pentagon.io.com>

David Cheng <cheng@pentagon.io.com> writes:
 
>What is the possessive form of Tekumel, if anyone knows?
>We've kicked around "Tekumelani", "Tekumelyani", and "Tekumeli".
 
I read somewhere, I can't find it now, that the rule is "add 'i' when a
word ends in a consonant and 'yani' when it ends in a vowel".  By this
rule, the proper word would be Tekumeli, but there are exceptions to the
rule.  I think "Tekumelyani" sounds best, myself.
 
According to the Tsolayni dictionary, the possessive is a suffix "mra".
"Tekumelmrakoi" sounds even worse then your alterantives, and it's probably
the wrong word, anyway.
 
                                               --Bob Dushay
                                       Dritlan, the Legion of Obscure Books
                                       1st Imperial Heavy Scholars


From alberti@riverside.mr.net Mon Mar 13 11:44:28 CST 1995
Article: 128 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!in1.uu.net!mr.net!riverside.mr.net!alberti
From: alberti@riverside.mr.net (Bob Alberti)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: New EPT Rules Update
Date: 11 Mar 1995 21:55:22 GMT
Organization: Tsolyani Light and Magic
Lines: 22
Message-ID: <3jt68a$ph8@cedar.mr.net>
References: <3ifiio$kor@newsbf02.news.aol.com> <bark002-0203952003320001@dialup-4-50.gw.umn.edu> <3je9ek$s87@crl6.crl.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: riverside.mr.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Jonathan Zamick (lfiction@crl.com) wrote:
: barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker) writes:
: >Theater of the Mind will issue a completely new set of rules in April of
: >1995.  We are now waiting for the completion of a brand new map that is
: >being produced.

: >M.A.R. Barker

: Is it true, did they manage to drag Professor Barker back to the computer?

I will humbly claim the credit/blame for this one...  I stopped by his
house last week, strongarmed him into my car, and frog-marched him into
Computer City where I forced him to buy a 28,800 modem.

I then loaded his computer with all sorts of software and left him
staring glumly at this new time-sink in his life.

Unfortunately he has managed to figure out a lot of the software, despite
my best efforts to leave him in confusion.  Soon he will begin to post
regular messages, and all my efforts to promote the Temple of Ksarul through
misinformation and propaganda will come to nought.



From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Mon Mar 13 11:44:29 CST 1995
Article: 130 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!bt!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tome
Date: 13 Mar 1995 09:05:02 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 31
Message-ID: <3k11ru$50u@news.bt.net>
References: <D5963v.IFA@dorsai.org> <pmac.794931292@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

In article <pmac.794931292@pentagon.io.com>, pmac@pentagon.io.com says...
>
>fschiff@news.dorsai.org (Fred Schiff) writes:
>
>>Just a note to everyone, please, please support TOME by buying the new
>>game system or else TOME will stop making Tekumel products.  I have spoken
>
>Well, they might try *advertising* it! 

Couldn't agree more.  There must be any number of ex-EPT'ers out there who 
don't know that stuff is coming out.  I would have thought that an Ad in the 
Dragon would be pretty sensible: it is, after all, an ex-TSR product, and 
many old-time D&D'ers will have heard of it.

But has there been *any* advertising at all?

>Also, I suspect that the asking price is too steep.

Now here I'm not so sure.  I doubt that the price puts off many people.  
After all, most of us are going to be earners, already interested, and I 
really doubt that the number buying is that elastic (within reason, of 
course).  I know that I would buy the TOME EPT stuff if it were double the 
price.  The gamebooks have been very cheap, and excellent value.

I'd like to know what happened to the Fasiltum adventure in Vol II part III. 
Anyone know why it was dropped?

On a different note, I heard rumours ages ago that someone had done a 
Tsolyani Font.  Is there any issue with copyright in turning the scripts in 
S&G into fonts, e.g. TrueType ones?  It is, after all, easy enough to do.



From nfalstein@aol.com Mon Mar 13 11:44:30 CST 1995
Article: 131 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!uhog.mit.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!news.umass.edu!caen!zip.eecs.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsjunkie.ans.net!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: nfalstein@aol.com (NFalstein)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tome
Date: 13 Mar 1995 11:39:40 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 6
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3k1sgc$8ae@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
References: <3k11ru$50u@news.bt.net>
Reply-To: nfalstein@aol.com (NFalstein)
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf02.mail.aol.com

>Also, I suspect that the asking price is too steep.

Ah, but that's been true since the first release.  It's always taken a lot
of kaitars to enter Jakalla in style!
--- Noah Falstein ---
nfalstein@aol.com


From slocum@pentagon.io.com Mon Mar 13 11:44:30 CST 1995
Article: 132 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!nobody
From: slocum@pentagon.io.com (Brett Slocum)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: WANTED:  Successful Rules Variants
Date: 13 Mar 1995 11:44:19 -0600
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 31
Message-ID: <3k209j$it8@pentagon.io.com>
References: <3jerbf$b0t@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk> <xyx4u0J.rdushay@delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com

In article <xyx4u0J.rdushay@delphi.com>,
Robert Dushay  <rdushay@delphi.com> wrote:
>Roger Pearse <rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk> writes:
> 
>>>Just in case anybody else cares, I have a more or less complete adaptation
>>>of AD&D, 2nd edition for Tekumel.  It uses the Swords and Glory magic
>>>system, but there's no reason why AD&D spells couldn't be used if somebody
>>>wanted to.
> 
> 
> 
>>I'd be interested in these also - how about posting them to the group, and
>>adding them to one of the WWW sites?  If they were around, people would use 
>>them.  I've often thought about running my AD&D friends through Tekumel, and
>>been detered because I didn't really want to teach them all RuneQuest.
> 
>I'll be glad to post them here.  It will take a little while to format
>them so they'll look okay.  As for the WWW, maybe Brett has them on his
>page?  They were posted to the Tekumel Digest back when he moderated it.
>Brett?

Well, they are currently bundled in all the archives for the Tekumel Digest.
Someday, RSN, I'll seperate out all the good stuff from the archives and
have them indivaully available.  That goes for the GURPS Tekumel stuff
that showed up in that Digest.

-- 
Brett Slocum   http:/www.io.com/user/slocum
slocum@io.com
See my Magic: the Gathering and Illuminati: New World Order
trading lists at the above home page or email me for a list.


From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Sat Mar 25 15:52:33 CST 1995
Article: 196 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!in1.uu.net!pipex!bt!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tome
Date: 22 Mar 1995 11:20:05 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 22
Message-ID: <3kp155$74e@news.bt.net>
References: <D5963v.IFA@dorsai.org> <pmac.794931292@pentagon.io.com> <ERICH.95Mar21190345@hrl8.cs.tamu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

In article <ERICH.95Mar21190345@hrl8.cs.tamu.edu>, erich@hrl8.cs.tamu.edu 
says...
>
>In article <3kmbej$me2@jazzmin.vnet.net> jonreece@jazzmin.vnet.net (John 
Reece) 
>writes:
>
>>By the way, my favorite suppliment is still the old two-volume Tsolyani
>>language set.  Any chance of seeing revisions and additions coming along
>>from TOME?  I would guess that the market is somewhat limited <sigh>...
>
>My personal wish is for similar works on the other major languages
>and Engsvanyali.

I'd far rather have more gamebooks, and more novels.

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
Information Systems Unit/AA&T                       Tel:01473 644910
BT Labs                                             Fax:01473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------



From barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu Sat Mar 25 15:52:34 CST 1995
Article: 197 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!spool.mu.edu!umn.edu!dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu!user
From: barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu (M.A.R. Barker)
Subject: Re: fonts/typefaces
Message-ID: <barke002-2203951833490001@dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu
Organization: University of Minnesota
X-Newsreader: Value-Added NewsWatcher 2.0b24.0+
References: <3kh85l$lfu@news.doit.wisc.edu> <3kjida$5kd@news.bt.net>
Date: Thu, 23 Mar 1995 00:33:49 GMT
Lines: 28


> When I've done the Tsolyani typeface, I'll post it.  Main problem at the 
> moment is working out where to put all the letters.  I've put initial 
> letters as capitals, and medial letters as non-capital, but that still 
> leaves the final letters, and all the compound symbols.  I'd like to put 
> them somewhere that makes sense, and is easy to use.  Anyone know how this 
> is handled by other, non-roman fonts?

Bill Faulkner did a very nice Tsolyanitypeface some years back, called
"Jakalla." I later redid this but am still not satisfied. Anybody know how
to make a typefont run from RIGHT to LEFT? My solution? Make a
left-to-right font, take it over to an art programme (Adobe Illustrator,
Aldus Superpaint, etc.) and flip it horizontally. Works fine, but nobody
could do a Tsolyani book this way.

Bill also did a Yan Koryani font that is quite nice.

Also did a Salarvyani font -- unsatisfactory for kerning reasons. Later
did a Livyani font and one for Sunuz. Never could do one for the Secret
Tongues of Ksarul or Sarku because of the numbers of complex glyphs
involved. Sunuz is the prettiest, I think. Maybe TOME will publish my long
article on Sunuz and the religion(s) of the Pariah Deities if the
roleplaying rules make money. At the moment I don't want to put these
fonts out over the Net. (I also don't know how -- I'm a "newbie,"
remember?) Let me perfect them, and then maybe I'll do it.

-- 
-----


From hreidmar@aol.com Sat Mar 25 15:52:34 CST 1995
Article: 198 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: hreidmar@aol.com (Hreidmar)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Flamesong Q's
Date: 23 Mar 1995 00:13:02 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 12
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3kr00u$1k6@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
References: <3kmfav$82n@news.bt.net>
Reply-To: hreidmar@aol.com (Hreidmar)
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf02.mail.aol.com

Now, if someone happened to list DAW's e-mail address here, & then a few
of us just happened (yeah, that's it!) to drop them some lines pointing
out our appreciation of the published Tékumel books (hopefully satisfying
the basic greed instinct of capitalist organizations) -- that just MIGHT
help convince DAW to publish another one (or more...).
Oh well.  If somebody does just happen to have that address, I'm up for
giving it a shot.
Aloha.
Pat 
Hreidmar

"It'll stop hurting when the pain's gone."


From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Sat Mar 25 15:52:35 CST 1995
Article: 199 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!peernews.demon.co.uk!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Tsolyani Font - tsolyani.zip [0/1]
Date: 23 Mar 1995 10:33:36 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 17
Message-ID: <3kriq0$6ib@news.bt.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: message/partial;
     id="795954835@Roger Pearse";
     number=1; total=2
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

Content-Type: multipart/mixed;
     Boundary="*-*-*- Next Section -*-*-*"

--*-*-*- Next Section -*-*-*

Included is a TrueType font based on the tsolyani script laid out
in Empire of the Petal Throne.

Have fun!
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
Information Systems Unit/AA&T                       Tel:01473 644910
BT Labs                                             Fax:01473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------
--*-*-*- Next Section -*-*-*



From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Sat Mar 25 15:52:35 CST 1995
Article: 200 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!peernews.demon.co.uk!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Tsolyani Font - tsolyani.zip [1/1]
Date: 23 Mar 1995 10:33:39 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 897
Message-ID: <3kriq3$6ib@news.bt.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: message/partial;
     id="795954835@Roger Pearse";
     number=2; total=2
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

Content-Type: Application/Zip
Content-Transfer-Encoding: x-uue

begin 755 tsolyani.zip
M4$L#!`H````&`'Q'=QX71'?G/9```'SM```,````5%-/3%E!3DDN5%1&#P`2
M`R05-B<X.6I[3)UN'PD&`1,TY?:6]P$&&':%``$#'`@0Y-.I+V5*'![01+2S
M&G:G8]N&A5MZ[^,)R\Y/^(&FS[+-:S8^?_>$EB=(:GCQW-&6#4OV?=/95)8_
M]Q_Q-M%`.\3(`K,].ZYG)XFV+5V\5GFWA/7LW(87R)+MV[%A`>8D*&EY]0B>
M'8;7XX4+H'EAR[/'\>X@W89M6[8D;)7NGAT+5BX0[MNY=*XR;6_/Y5N&?69`
MR``+*!G(`A<:'%APH$"!`@EX`PLDZ.$+1)CERO^O5_Q_6?+4GUGP%,ZV9`^H
M8=@-`J`FCGW`.(L3*.L/.*.<RNT1[]3)LZ?/GT"#"I%F08^0HD62#3FRA*D0
MI4J<&DTZQ.C2IDR1"ST$>88TZ.F$%2^6G-BQ9<R'*5?FW'@28L:7-V>.C/@Q
M)$")-8=X*^#`@PO1`="1LO7Z=>Q4N0#5EKT*ERQ`0="W$3YL'&UNU@ZQ[^V*
M%F`1X\_>/2J0[Q\XKY5JU:A2GT+!]JT`P38)T@"3SB5J=*E?PWT/$U;$?**J
M<:56UQ0['64E*)!1L8N8HQ/XL_\/.#5@V(!X`TH6:%P@=Y`406H$H>1%@C0)
M$B9(G2%%BLSX_U\7-*#4@&#&T1-!8@3)$22(<9YC')4X`"\R(/B`X@.2"T:;
M#Z@^H/N`\H(YO6!I/*9'1#!B\J3V%3'`G0!U`N0)L"=`GP!_Q+X'!2BD'"[S
M+0NMOEO8G`$V!,@1($N`,';;40)4">!WR_UN>X<`,0)T<=@#E)%G7PC00^QR
MA@!II`V=$&!%@!<!E@1067<$V!)@3(`/`:8$N**R![@1X$F`$`%F!/@2X(W2
M&>!(@!$!?@08XMTE`JP)<$AK`([@L.X*T"O`+X6?ZP]0+,"Q`'C_,K'?Z0_`
M]4_#>`/PPVP2S]T"?`O@,FN\/.\YC.]U`4#>=P'B!9@7H![+&R!?@'T!^@7X
MY]4]D.WY8`"+WNEN&."AP7-%K0HX2:<`M0)D"A#+X9CGK!2@50"[=E6`3P%D
MSD0!1@4H%:`1S$YS!C@5X%&`2P$V!7`Z7PFR91Y5_E2!%06J"*,Q'S``,3M&
M@OT_3M+_;_V_X?_!\#T&Z-OP/U#?['S0_]K_BP+:I+Z#Z9O5Z7T)S[?E.'^^
M_\W_[_U_\G_N_VO_/_W_V=B`GWCS5@,R%XAH<\UK(ABP8\3MC?_S_G]O:UL[
MUKF6[O[?EY6,3C/\?_T_N:#^#_[_MF`W5NV'8->B&L#85KR=:RFWK?[B)X>!
M1A>2;_U9SJRB]OO_L?^7_K_P_V/'36UO-5_86P$D_L"VO(,EU71;6UK6QZD*
M-"OP7&I96L!1@UCP/Y4ZV]M+6-K50)8%M_7DHJIMSS2WLWN2_SBRZ597/MU<
MQ6T";V"0H?^[_X?U)9_]7_7_=]7V?X*[[.C:JN@U/>6VINU^0[3I"(;^?ZN:
M%V6XS?_3[CW___+_X__?E;6+_/^I+DMNC'MKMBQ(]\/6_T^L\G')`47A[0#R
M`C+`2V0YNU;F4W*.9_&#,P#:]WVZZV#:%R`=[6?X!O9_AAU?IEMY9LW'BN:G
M24!>H</BIP"+`F</Q6;WA/OV=,XOB3:I7A>(5M15"Y(_D'^2T[:C0%J&4Z8Z
M#^@`TD$&$$RF_8_V/Z:Y[3%U.<!,9#0VG6S8:WB>V_Y/S_%<QZS9<%$UUR4F
MV1UTN>P%^OSO_+_8_[D$S]BTT/^N_X6_0PI>-^""0G+J`$?YT6!O?([KF0S?
MEE[?MA<Y=A.DY^)VU;]4JF7]GF/SW-'ZK[=NV\?]/^1H_;]J*;]%^6V)-Y$L
M.]8PEF^[<M8`I_2HMP8(:2S;>GJ>;5/-HXX^YV@'$+2]U=I[>YL?.]L_Y;0P
MSSC_9M$VUF6"]\_\?Y@NVO44?,?2<"K"-=63K*>@V3;45.ZMN_5#"99?:OC6
M57.>45Y-P6K&&/^=57C?0RK+BF[LXQWI@KGF]M+_37W%M52*O9Y6%5A4H*)=
M(+8-I&SD!,QS<$+V!$)V(:IG<#H/V!R<&&W45,2QF<)7:;G4<66?X]#_NVOW
M"JYG8">Q=_0:YG;E]W"C-R$$!KG:@8F."8WFN.QJ(Z51#&HVQQ_,=F#V77"P
MKD?^/US1]IY>RS!=Z5P^D+Y!**_C.7X/T'H/BLEPPBBKEW?:!N2+<>7Q3-/W
MP>WCS++AZ3GE<]YH6$EOWPDN8[/12:CRU/^U<.7L4(6QJGQ7QSU=W/_1^6/O
MEI@#>RR_&O#%9GFV,_(3>;"6+?T2W5X9+P9-?B0R'<E/3TBV=V5H\3P@CZ0M
M/%69O7\IOF*BHC=ROJ/93>NN,,=U<WS)S7<JD^L.#)FS_!>Y)]$D'^M?]W\R
M]VZ<X*MK;W6X7FQRRIM+^6S/4;4]!LVR0%$'B0P'D"1L3&@`S>@`V7"\#+1]
M+)@+_#,[CB?.SFY.KN_/MO8HTN1*!9XHRNO=M-KD(__OJ**__U<YZ[E,$7VW
M$=`<TX&V\R.0DC7HF]&^F\BR/>D<1[NO(%N`LJ-=2;,K_B]@V*,\R1D,P3E,
MP4L<P84$NX<JV4ES_X/"?52;64J78PFC,LI97B1LF[]/97D&P;'7NLQ+]VLQ
MW3_^>^E]M:HZ>K36,EVXJLQDFE#_)*83FSP?!O)\2:#)E3FQ2')LE>H7:M]J
M]7%1M+#W,&5S.5MZ]W-I8&'7*$<:1"_4&$;;7R>8H&E_=606/)0^>(!(\:H&
M[Q=,<I4I#LS)`S1O"!))\!*(`@QO"4[V-!3>8]#9\#3S`#=_9JSG7C(^B]FK
M]A><+G\.$UK(UGP[ST-9`L.)ETIY!VS'E^<HY])*TS15(0<`XY',:---/1==
M<V7W%GVTU!"*YPCD['?]T_=_WS\^(#DQ3.7WN&`]ZUXHG-_KMH<E:*2N^KE_
M6(;D2MS@HSB*RQDUGO)_"$>T5U<;=K25<Y9)M[5J7EN\2W@UAS:TOSAH'NZ@
ML^&M+&7=WX`\&;9+FQIHN"71]$ERJ-&$E?FBOGS<J7DC@N_4!(:9<:+_[?'!
MQ9T[MR!;\IFZY';B-L2SHCW"D)R+X+LT#48V2_T3E%6AO<9G61?!!G@M5!T@
MN)$!(A5.F`MT^Q].9SB=PPO/"^A(EP]X!J[]\<R1-1XW@3)D!O-/O>("^/)K
ML^?/,LNQ^D>6"O@D)]H$>IM38.<%C\!)]FE_H*)O%^#2#2)ZL:)YF01MCZK$
M^=EYVO\O3?,T-\^7$-&NE5*5O0/K.RW9]U&3XO34Y#P&M"M"HO.`?0G@_Z\K
M,SV7G"PV!?$W%UC^H(:5W_90.,TFQ##_=]*B=5Q!TW`<##WP1=<<5[4O@N9U
MQ.!(^W^;]FELM."I57,6G6'!M]@B3?"X03%U=AJVP$HA8$@*C$P"LL`'6WL'
MC6<I]0*4S^XZ2L'D[RBNK889CC\R^9YESGX$<AP"[MC=%34JQ_,UAN,NHNR4
M_^O8RR5$V;U!/,%<*]X*XEHN>%V2+.F]#0SZ7UNWP;@V/;EI?V9ZPIB.HJ*I
MP!1&I:'YO41W'HG0AH\1,3D1D.`:VOV:R+:1II_]0WB@?4\/Z114(BO]U[1,
MQY;LR1#3_9R)ZWC+]A?30'H'%,LS.2R/.Y`+:GN_4<`T6P-<V4HF/7F@D)()
M-#:!M4`JQC\])WD'P_4(K6U<KZS&.22GC:(8Z;HGOAT-E(VB[(M-[N+!FEB_
MD'ED$4%D)5.$FM^)LO*6GU.TQ\B8_BQH3S;LVW8$)S1L!.@^4-G71(9ON_8O
MKN.^B"0EDPRX?2`"?5NPF$:`0B9')13&U?<JOB-P=;GYEK"UB56^3U`L2JMZ
M';?"MT,SX%G5DPY@5U;UA3ET@?8?CBGOL`;_=#M>I_9]7!9\003N((C$]L0#
M3A>(:Q0:)$)(!?Z_H,KW>`.0RWDMGHE*ABG2/YT,Q)(^"9_]WF0R);$9+=LN
MA$O.*B%(ZEOR">+=#Y*<6U'FJ4=Z7?=V$)T=(7,`*9I+>XH>:'.@$DX6$@Y0
M5!_H%K+V<5SP'Q$8AP+XE@-I@@#'1G<0BN37.($CB*E,%*W:4DL<6!TC07F9
M',^QK>68:"$'<.)DV6Z:^\_5<F2R6%A]_:,A6/KXFI9J3S"R?4TGV125GR(P
M1"`-U;;M?W!'<'VU9C]*M\71'^">7=57+76HO*7;-CC_C\1W/5SA^[U)Y;XF
MF\0=4`L`93$4L'M.L*SL]P,2@73#ZP@@1?W[XW=\M&I<UABJY)A2A_,)MP;<
M6,EY5>!,[N,9R9":A]XNS8^L<6B"T`L*V12W\8)`R2R("Q:0!1;N#PVE<5S#
M#LET#`BCB;D&(Y420?8X?1_@9/_:?S7524@V8B2">)=E,T5@,<_0]-/_#V0`
M_\5(QGK\O[JSW%J_WPV(ZEU\.$8G:8R5!6VJ;6[P"HSJWO3D"VC;LQQ,]^-J
M5O0/.C:#+56EJUQ(R?8@,L^A[;NYQO`;EB1C6\M63B2<LQN`^28T&`'K`K-U
MR=L$V3,0$.QFE`)?:$QD0=4%]=1X'U)SL"`A3"$,-]50P8$ZB`.A_F_JG]`(
M;9>Y!K0.4'FOJDR#JNC).8`<!$&UR%E&B#$E5_><#I-3V$V'ZS_:K3NW4V!)
MS>.`\&4[QK;?,/'L^V0EWA9C;:GK^&2?X^M<S^Q?'4#A\B[#;K:5.,.\-P-L
MT&CY#.MM,Y-E>;`!6_R.YY"2S_<70QXK,FS\5W?[FQ6<;827O6U!CZTK"\T-
M!XST;[+[O,-R2-_>Z+&]1,=V5FKP3!*L_=]LPGLX!<`ZOE2"??O7LQ)LZ0\'
M/!*97%7&LI%G+]NO=(8#^GG5MMO*!3ZNMNF",@L<[^,"!BFC0054B%<!,6!!
M!I'O#VHA=])[=MNF2(Y"S"XAMYVX?RJCX[Q:UU)70$`%!0.["S![H<3Q:XC,
M.U'!Y?B1-7]#+'>F(DVOH0L,-N]6&DC>)K0]@<CB7=AL^9T0=P=`<%4$FPW)
MZP@--W$YIM)?5+<7@:+GN/'")C?@!*_VMF>J<;X+`')ZKF_U'^*!V?<<\JWM
M&X5[J[)9VV?Q6`:EW32[BY_'1U&B+PFWHINMIV79J>C1XQ3M?7RV^+X?!Y!$
MVB!%@J!6AH5$%"X!VC5@21'>`Y'<44/V5K7G>U0\ES#L"$*:ATMA/)!B>#@$
MRROT/!O@E6I`&+UHG**""+;3(-AL>6U8="@<BY>!LZ.X>([&TJWJL#B<@E%D
MNY.?ZOO&+>G&ODD"85*>`(,J=VQ]#A;3L>0<._HOO"QC-B^-X7"LJ+*KOX0I
M\QR]@.T7W-X;V!U?0#-M^!@WVSI0E7"V`PFHG?O4`%E5OPL\>@<KL.YGC+;+
MF]M%*,'Z3X"@)=O66_L<DBBYXWSR-M?7.'QT53&7W]L(G%UE6L+?PZB1ENKH
M+^JV&1Q#84&ZP8$43%S:_H_Z[_>D`U19!&=SPX[F9I%H3G#[<1:87D_QG`L@
M>I>?Z$!@V3M0CI\A)'OJYO\K?>7*7-%GA!P[-&H)S<H3_^=CJ*[,@'%,/M]Y
M/;H3NC0IDP7T48"P'N/953&2IWDXG$_H,]]2%W_V3<<>*MPTZ7+WUO?$HF!K
ME+HO<_AN)MDC*`*+:);W_DCQ7Y+IQVB!]3VG-QG)O=RZQTM].U%&.G[MY9'V
M#=K)RY-H\*@D09@.`%8@K![E7P[%$G]KD>*P3D]6IF<)R%:Z]ZM=CV'I=J?"
MU5DI>;S)]V=UN;0O.;M8PAZ;OZN2>?J]`TZ8]P0[PUM1!#_1L1W.LY\%*.9*
M[+BCQW1$7U=[-O23#*Z?(CEVP'RH:L^31=]68+B2&(CGJ.B>.("#_T^9)(3C
M"0.6$MB&<9:2VC;3K"DGYW`]T`%M>1^F:Q\QB#;7YAS%9N<$W[XK$055_9FM
M\F298YO]4X"60L]1]&W=Q?ZB!L/Q'=F>^ITK\VP0W;>Q.%[L\3F1I]T7@.7/
M@D`;I'_PR$EU*2D7&(B#Z,9Z(""!*IA@VJ`DB^*G;`!'YR2326(9G]';>.YR
M_Y>993]&6UY"<YV$QK&,>7U_B_!`KNU[\,SF9Y(S'->^T60CLLGPA<="3>]7
M\P@#O+>AN`B(9,%;LU37[;\&:KNP9'^'P[(+(95@1H+FD&3-Y0;4Y&"Y$#.Y
M%8WMV#S;'?T"0QRI>FQ_&Q<DIC^)`W<OZ?8(U!P4G'E`93_2,!C+1(<E6[;4
MGBS3GE]B>TZ'"#X.0SEW_^>&[!Y2OFGF*`.J`?"V=@1K$V%V>S>/U;TVT'<*
MPYXF;&?%6_[IRQP]0$_5[/EAIN.C_P64$?N?T91?XTTO%.Q4ON3W]G88/=_*
MC]"W>WH$^$"#()!LKP402A6X/H"4K`-U]>U<)-T[":X+^_F>S+$$\WR4"^Q@
MYG(Q+<DI$)!LK/N<NQ,4SO9POJV<21)=`NWR>[[(%0=L0``YJSW[EV;;_".I
MMI]1`7D'7&+![<_;OYMCQ\:(9@'9CV/=BS"YOH-5;/+G&C!,TJ[!X%OCI0%\
MJPE>Q>'Y%5.V\*\=>S(45CAX,21[ZP]S,@Q$@GY*C7,C`L7V+R'`\@6X[IMJ
MU\V1`M[A*"MO?BSS7@.TO,^P/W,MYX8!,!%*IR79\?V;96RJ:1OZ(@17SG)M
M:3DRG^+5?`H+'LA<EG^FSW$."MO990$729";[%J%AZI,HK:`M,UP*MPV)Y`2
MM^M/H0UGXW%K%;PEFYO=5R_P.)#GRXY]VK"7<1W?X"=?]^DVZ<>0@S>:=&=`
M9D]C1!?A9#^W[=`B2*;%HPC)#51P^F]EKX/+IN4S`Q0U<NPE;:A1[(`Q,#J!
MG6GAVUJR>X"#7?_(-7QM@/XU5.TP_T4"5:)&?V`F[U>V&[EY=CBG,J/SV/=!
M6/1%<;DWALKC&997V,`X!1O%DC]6X5E8Y?R=M>`^"C%\SLMBT5.AHM?`/*/M
MV+BAOWU;$VF"TPT2&U$(W`&.LD'-L!#,\`,#]>6';-WUQ#BO@SEN(&]+Z]W^
M'/T\8=F8!S2Q"Y,?\EPO@GHV4:3.L[!UAT,1.+0.@I^1-4,4?:;8+/@?!]\]
MC<EU),FR(]R]+;L+UG-?27`OE!67_4;$]`CG3F&@R`KAX":!Y?T>$,XZ,/GS
M33:F9<\`,_U5PG`8&\,2]M$:WR@(N[>>1KW'P*PF*X^@R8[-=IT8H@FA6+:B
MT/#L\5;FB1XL3];'H_"&QQDIG-R$$%WL9;FW>5_K_]N279H`XP7"LA"(-,BZ
M8"Y6MD1%/1!PJ@",RP*,0D7HCN!Y39WEE"K3)^F.@^.3WX'@^3B2SK-50CM`
MM7!`":'F4S[-/3A4IQ=NJ[HMD)7H^!?'Y50<SSY#KZFN:Z.#&P<@.ZJ$9/(X
MZ];]N4#S;H3K'6(AOP$Q'!(?W9+H6_C'/KY3<VW!T_]3T,GVODJB^1:0:BY.
MPEX($_P*Y;@!U!<U>1X7BEP$.HXO:@\CF$36F@#VG`>'9\--3^=6!8CN[41Q
M>DE;T!_:-A^KSU*D-2]N`;6A+H-9)GJJ00K^^/^>;7MOOOME/=G'^\?M[^RB
MWU=K9,&T!>":B<\&A@@8S@)%D0$M4OG`__]3_Y]R\<RAJZH66&2=:PB$EO<Z
MGN#@--U%#'#\SR>YD&(/\FV^O0+.,<'6XO]+K9S]UU-L7[-O>]Y=D[RC_U5_
M/J`A%NV$=`BA$&Y"=?C<@![*Z,$TRZ-P"-9?4/_H]MP!VXB:P]FC5]!55\>I
MMGE+.D)YMK</HUL.10/EN_[H[`#3;9WM,2;/M@>V[S;6K>F2NEOJ>XN&[E=^
M0*<2EL^!D)Q!D7U7+631[QFY_J'A4TEP-5LY`];BJL:]D0["\2V>'[J#9:4*
M`*LDN8XWN!H9R!R2_OI<VSFS8A0=\`1.NJ`AE6E&O<0&`V-:B!@`W#0&F'"*
M#Y(4]L^)=-T<8+NQ84.L[;C1L6A@?L:+3@*G>X\$X9=PSXLXML<(A+8!SJ^6
M7)MC>X1=<WK+IMF']:<Q']/OXU"'/PC:Y+SL@%(,WX+NZ!M(T:<D>+Z*BG[C
M[92RD;`8T?996'!V/M48?T4\.,<$)>_0RZ[GWJOHEKT]C$6Q_9]YAI&F(*9V
M.?9B)<+CS4)7QS-E*F?#!`\,\)L!ZCP0@BM;>`[I`)<8PI?)O@75T<LYLDV]
M#-KWE__AN;9;:S"VM'90HU,*!1;R?*")H(QPYU;!L;;?AP:7P.FVOP9*<QL6
M@VV]GB:0P0OB:]I[U"5-@!*@('8+A"(`;>%[IZI\R1#MD(SS_!WEN3%2D:G<
MB4_W(*9KP]-`78?Q0GD+S_4U?[+R7_H'M(.ZMUY@22U"PUO)L7%'P+KFT;1)
MTQX@9;F.-KFC)SM<`!FT\C!=!]:+5OO74AQSR4])8&WLB>S(_X/]/^>Z?<-Q
M2CK@D2/YH*M]1;<5$/I@\%F:)OW?%&#X*DYQ;!V8;%MQA#R9CN5CDN`\DN#4
MJN`,_76UM`G<!ECJN?R?8236,+;CVJ6>TQ\8I6R;*\(XD2@9JFBP=W_6^MX!
M,;B9(KFB%-P:>!IXP5FBY&A&%A`X>&`>!1!X!1"D&I)5-N"5A^4XZ`#%>P&2
M$=8.C&RVX_ZE_M?@9.?UZA;^F4'F:*!HOZXN?*J':33GXK/<G94\!<,0Q7$V
MANT&`HSA3&W2(]S=B7)R2C('T.8/2&GKU.`):DV0Y-`4:&$M@ZUS^@^V:NS'
M\H"NH.`3<-^;`;Y]-6S_)`C3V0W%QMY`V.8Z]FQ7'46Q/8?B>1$_&FCOI[RL
MO4I2'H$Q?`D9?<H@>Q^&*><>B].YB$7A[`(8.<LWF0SAP>7//((-*?O^Z&OO
M(C@V2B:`^"_#]4P'E+>*V(YO%]J*D?!+E&VN)2G/9K2%/RW<KCX4IXFKV8O=
MWRY9=GTU_:B5ZQ:VN:P<UF>!'M>'4.U<MUDT-C^VE>/O4'`Y)%?E&W966]5U
M@GTXU?+X`#H/S1^@EL&Q&PZ"YP*-&A3A`7?3@`N&'_B#ENRKY;7)DGBY*+FL
M8=^T()AC/Z#V+?A(=[:#.YH7RN$8BOVTGVBV)YB2WT*QONWTG4KD^;`WN(>!
M9]=S.#S7)F83R,?KLH&$7_BZCTNBQ<Q_#9MO3FM(%C*OD_GVI7M%R:ZT[_X?
M=-$\39<&4($N'8`P-C4%3_+ZSN^-SM1_NMHW%?\FP/0,N&&Y\X@F[I_.Z?NC
MTK<ORMOOTC#V+U-=9=A-].5U<--SF$+NRT.RI\MZ0X)D6S_CH_%DC^=94,TK
MU7N%R+$:UD2!?>_)!G`/=_986?9A=W9(6]M?UEM^[_<X)@)C-54)P*)U/VMA
M.+1J?\3SN:5S]U99-GVW;?=D(NSJ6YCT;L_"JNERX),E(#;V.H9R1B3>E6W9
MG:6[N/H'\'!JK'6<0E\<!<)CW_^9/!JK0<0&G3C)I0B@,#`5H)S#>-!`%`#R
MYE*W?VF2U6G(`?H>4I$<0VOSW?WVZK+&L]BF22K4_^*`B3+=6G]D:?($EV%3
MHHN4OCVTYX2V8^^?^+^9T7!OU6[@Q;LG671\+=V]$%"6]/>&Y'DN<`<R[(QD
M*-^4@K(LO:X+UO=M6$E.WWR8&F?V`_+/T90["#&N;&GN(,/[(47H:.)@S2WD
M7[V6H]"8GJ?T/481_!XFX!_JG<^U"TE-JQ_!X_$YPQXCRIYEU"VLX1RNQ;VT
MO"T!U6%_^[9RRQ[=0K&#,+-`\V=->S*0ST3N&_K@\4*7A/,&=G9M3^R1?=1I
M.T*"F-:VLNIZ#K?"V86J##HMM@#Z13#5!@K,HT,,6%`V*$CM0`=3E/7UOC];
M6-OH94=B@-MP*.-9??8(N<=%,1R'ZQ^<S[':L>K>O=`D^L.`G0.R$<&<D@[.
M*H(*![CK=7D.F^WN5M/RDX`;_JV_E7@M&H8+%>BF1]AU??ZY_];^J=W!NA^7
M[2T$F@WV*&;^`O>5IH](HBM[@NU\BP5<`Y#<!`C!FW3)ONKL/2RN_3S;MN`7
ML`S/4OC.H2AG%&MNX_9M?`H$"&O_0:195B<:VCY8JWGNY9+,H9L,ZI)F-'OR
MW(YHY>\:L^V>8A,`;0D/NQ0;\WZ")&?;]:H"H;>[>5S[@$D3&=RB,AA2@ML>
MVB\J@9O"*1=0/L<9.!8S@LDMQHE`J,APDP]<,Z3`0T-V%F^QOY?RZ];:"J/V
MW``%P!;MJ_ZS`80Z>*>R*"ZET*RZS?S>QNZ6O%`:;(64^7VE^X?%\7=-<NG^
M!QVJ8].!+1$7%QD!V>8_].T6OCW.S[/A:>2J`P@"[U19_F!4W:-_=7OT""'"
MKD\UV%;TQS+9C5VV+>Q%#I006Z82I?IDK<FKI,'J=`\,XR(#.C@LK]!*#NO=
MXB@(X*56TVNUT5MUEMMKV8ZF0UCVBJYL:3UG+7OJ#)_C=C;9347MIWK)ZAK<
MGSFT3O-;`,'O-;NEUG1.B^DF)I<%#RD,\L%Q*\$N!"`X-AWCXP7.2C)'0V-<
M"$[B["8X&5S/P"$,!+3:M=U\6.23!OT6E$:4.WE\%[-*,"80E!J`<HZB?*`$
M`SO0P5]^BL?)7/^__/]$0FDMEM:,)L,?K>5HVG)LK>TN/)3'!4CNM6PF65T*
M,-J5G->C2K=+:/=+P]XDL>R59,T#["^IL'W,ECV0CK&5,[_5LAA2TWQ4FZ&4
MQ9#L2G(8XZ'@W06#X?5VWV;O&RN)I?T"(3FF<;<AHOFVG^C*SJ0#6<1MIZ7W
M@N"[#H8_:,NK9-%.\C$#;@TP]@3V\CV9[XX$C&/;A#;T(+HM>BN?T#+_!;?$
M.3V>O;(\D@2UFB;84+U=[9POH?BJ&^_8LH6&X^"J_5]`<TS=/%)D6^DN\S^(
MWG5Z3UG_[NZ2LOS"[?N(36!-[Z)DNAW(DS][C=QSO@*;?1Z7TV:CD;2O?@>7
M)];\"!I60B9_MH'A90U:,-JA*%1+?%"/#E()`PI%`5(P1H07J7R_1W)Y-T"V
MN]<-$(R0+?@$6C(N_F<`\U<2B0GRJCS=N'*`P0/V>6#M>!@VUR&QOB<C20R-
MI_,Q?@R4K3C4>Q22G9UJ>A;<]RY^\FVHY=LL@7@LUQC`H3A`=&U;\R5DUUC#
MBOT:!2##QDF"A3'!FB>`@__0#6/B7ZY-Q1J+9FPZE.?Z%UQD59_*E6RM,R3M
M3FC5*<`4[Z)IEEM-4%T?07`L;%,<RV_M'RW1/31E7:5@;B)[5N7=-'NQ&<P@
MH4J`7?/83;60!L+V7^"+W!O--!:C[/#`2#@9[NZ1<0P[ZVTZBMU]#`56_\\3
M:>[+=,U@;CM`6T$?QD58_KSNML3G!M46:'^+AO,XN`A%@P%#Z:`0-)!(%IC<
M!Z)`&C\H9X=Q>013Z(-(VX'QDE4`-BUK]ANJ[:(XN@!TMCPQQO$2G,@+?9YO
MZ<#,L$:S[A*J:'O\7KY3B-JOC=G.<+3)\T-E<$)1L.KKP6P>)O)LZY(;>AZL
M:9+P*T6TS#?-<#5E=&.6Z=(`DC?HW,(VS/H8H+'U%USE:PB&=Z(TIU1';W#-
M8]3)=_"Z@Q!%:[OASIJ5+YK)\@#O'ZJC:]LR]Z(;!D+KGKNMS$\0N`X@:X]4
MN#8#25*WZ8/#J+,+H61_Y#'$TBVJFN[X6G.Y"ISG0\J=0[\OX/CZSV09SW0[
M+LF"_(_#]2:C[]XZUUAX6:KK#9Q;_KR6[)E:VYJDV_W#JES'YT.[D;%<U>=Y
M08`D+C$`Z^O"Z*W6]FX(A,39]T4;#/<WC:H#SE)Z3;F^O.VKMFJMWNKX+_$.
MK+?<EJ`Z!0"4E7^LTZVP)TLPN4$:L^D`,!*QH&$4%`C0")P/-&4M995SF=@N
M+A/ZG(1D=%_1'UO'R02N`4[NSO(<G^RY(#TY$#%Z`2N:'.\%!G/M4?G19?'1
MY+K$!V[7-7^JY%MT[P'>L@.>453/PF2?0"6W)FA2HZIEM@%?QDC6OSE1YWY`
MWR/L.*9I8IEC_2]LX]GU2N3@M`&J\F5G,6(=4RXQQI-CR7HA_U[/#?94_\MX
MMNNT<!(S\7-_>Z@H.[F;S*)?$)1W"7<U+=/FW_P/EB6\LG_E!`MZM?X_8=$?
M88'G.N`=UR.T`]CTX)"^\B4[WZ7M2+]7,<F#>PW6,)(S`2`]"RNBB!&?$"@[
M"6BB$-`'Z/`7]K_*!N!3C.QL=':K>4`R`JALLEM!Z5R0`LY(F/`\9/_%Q,#0
M)]+;;F[82`#INL&ZQ__^ACZ<&WRKOU"\2[:GD#'>H74X"\]W"C2-A8\+@_98
M*HN%QU,>"W#:[OHQ(CJ&J4V!50`*D1UM^P^4]1E^K.6;2=)]2'1B+"A?D`F9
M$!9G$EV?'6SL[P)LX#*]#$OW`R*TUVI5R^M$J&_W*?33*1C6=\T]M9=)Z/-P
MSY6UMB<C@#DX@R2A;F77B3/T5_?2-,>VZOAN(ML`3W.@-'[D"/Z@W7R2%FJ3
M'=6C?JK.#J4I?H/W+*W>'J"_K5<M$!?ML?HU,*Z7N+=9UVT"/!MA>,&#!]F\
MLB]A1:@N`,GVJ<$'\PA!\&!\UI"=!.0XO;'<7*RYF%ES=SW7X10\7[!*XD-R
M1Q='&L6Q`:9CZT3?LY2[*+8AK2/+/NV(;;ZU>5Q)L(,^CCUHP`*J94,?(U#]
MP91M_U:Y:OG)9FU\1A#Y,X7@O6[5_W@DJ[K$WU<GE$#AQH[D5;KDT`/\<68=
MRQ&P*%OB"01M@-(NCFW=>D.]J_7-HBH^"$I&C^OWK]0?J<U'PO!#LFG'9XG*
MGD>BD'P(#>#7&,WF/@Z,DK)MKB_^1_3LQ'#3722>%[$U3S4#F`<B)6.7_AS4
M.<8V`4[-#R26"3D"&DR60-8T&.&PO8D)`"X8X")0$'18\'EBT7%$#*N9-B7;
M>U$RL)"Z=RLV&]+FR#'=[2!`V:7UKL.Y;*X!5MC[RD8!BTU)7$F?V[P?.LON
MH%,4:,=WM9?H=FTOTB9[$K-=X6B`Y6;N`Z)D_YO+?;/!!O5GGW/O>^[='0#G
MXR29Y98N\!0O,Y3?,'`6/8>7Q_$'/&$K!_0Q^A8M)=L27UQ1CG(35]G]&3K3
MNKJ6(WJA*'JF;0M_44(Q"*=>"HT&@`$P!FU]5=3)`L_*&SY4TT9C3<,R%=AB
MKJ7&I)(]OD`V"]=&MC*X.`ZM93D[`8K]U&L;G$8*/`(B.AJ1[WRT`"#X%AB:
M"A(=@.!)0,3#9`^6(T1R>#>X/$+/XWFH9*AN,E$LBA7/PM3]&:UQ4-^N2B#S
M&*`I;C(5)U)2:$XR/0\D8!OL*X@)QK.(V<H_@R=!(M=A9]<5S+UP%)%]0]S=
M^_?__Y,MLO`>Q-MBKC_J-\;\2+=[>]I`_SM<M*X+^U"XX9HPR][^%TZUI`LZ
M[%!O(N..;]H6EE2E)A@<%]-ONJF93!HK8(X$>?ZARS;W@A3=R;F&5[DV0Y(C
MJXVPW5O8@KBLAU=YH!PJ#?`5&AQ*MZ/13)/(JL&RK>Z!33L5SJ4XP^K_H]MN
M*XA&*4=[RCF@OCOP'.="\YA`E>D?^;94;"/0>=H6@K:DEZ-9)GF2]!)TW:KN
M2%.KV[Y?)[B.1'"M6RC'2+TJ6@?@_]7_-Z3I'B+96+0H'-57M7_9RXID@&&6
M.=R`I@"R@(Z=90:2W5>\<H%&6),A`@FJYWV%60L$3`[5@-`_(-N('LT@V:V#
MP**!XC(1Q:C$@6@<D*@&\\P'NLB3CSNR-3]"P[M1@(4,R4$T.X(\6%I?T<I4
MGG9(?*_W^6ZNV1FT();&:0S9#_D81^.KLGI<S>ZX$D5S62##7PFB!\$Q+@TP
M7()'<T#9IL-4QT>=T3V]\8`JOO>OK*<Z.57A_YX'2,W"BP9EE3W5_X3R8'D\
M$(%D1ZE8_\S_A[FB?=\H;3]$JC*#.CJ+X4`0V0&PT*S[<=_F,U5(&BWR)_!M
MFJ;XS.@_"-E2SWJ7-SBR1Q,%YG$5E@IM>WWC\/F2<%YA<3F['D0RWPIK2SQ6
M%@(WEB3/@4A.`<!P9A9*)&XBW4?(<&SMPV$RIS"UXS*1<K6_.$R'U+47J3:8
MIN,^0U)@G@55^+`\.BD-W.+NKI_ILB?8LY^:B6ZNV)5]FT'^TIZ=.(`\LZ*<
MD""QM6<94$9*\#EK\#Z?X84BPU8>?WJ0ID$#YIZ&!Z9$!A@-$A!``F``C1$-
M/($2^(__+>B:T;6BG^S7\&"EN"79=R)Z]JH"[/@YWG=/7'8.4+;ML4&6CS-4
MSLXRF-13.RR/8<JBR;8**C^2;WHM27=Z)\_E_W<7$YFIG3O``CPQ(#F%&=#5
MR:[U3R_;NEXOP'"^[#!4TW::^Y?O'P*8O,*[A=W_\FS?O9"R=QD@W1GD^8<"
MRA%HNAT`4O-_[I]3L1]C-2?U[PFJ+?A=BLW^]X(@?!?J>`[5]1@,DL\Y<1ZC
M*@_M7[Q_5K9O>1VBI_JR"9R5[\+1?`$@<7:NSE61.@M>V]>^X3_&$]3VI@$P
M\7PS&.ON[(HT'%>6?X?3X$RYL,NNZ<(O<K;OLGT!)>>#:CRF?V%5^[AUMJ#U
MB.396XLK<`ZJW!#CM/]U"9Z$6X21`=()>GFB'3T/2N'FFK869PV5/BBR8+\'
M[6YH`E1*`PQR*-\'"5*!F2%!*E61T>?U3X^@V@T]-Q-C9M)0LVWEFR"B4[B$
MWJ$7?9H:O&C`>:/`HN]1\_V=D-S5S4M!>*MTZ_@.$)U.VK^E$M*_I);+<ER_
MAR<&T160X'FRW;17L##-<QZ#YJ%6U19M&#;-L1C)?N6Q_IDHR>-TAL_+P&UN
M=9"V57P[VL>U.B_2E#'^I0-XA$VUBG&.D=$13>W'7(REQ@:&_7W`)HLF?K"^
MM_4;'@R-EG;W>Y%=?])JSB5CVZ;7]$%>R?&Q.&&`U+^4=F/#R__S*]LRA@7M
MO4JN'=]&=3W"V#[K@^#C`%CJY@KNV/FB1)PO\2Q_4/.-\HUT'`.)M:X[TE%.
MQ;+>VU,^Z<F>+*)S"4\;ZPN%OT]"L^NG043'-H+*R6%'?VMH#H`G<%(:G&7W
M5UM\3=^N[8S6B?^[@N'>%%02)Z3;CH*$9E$MJ@R28&B_!=>DX%Y%A<=B"I!(
M#Q`!`L``4-G@,.88_#8Z_8<671B0#*KT6L=E\FVI[<T>S3C^J73?40G999"^
MO9:J\<JL_%N`>22AL\.3L>(P`]81LBL1J)P"S>7C;-_NX_U7M?!2;MUYWLY`
MIA7W/2^5Y[Y"U0IP:]H]C%MDJAR2;N_A_D__(SMT#0COAN<N/MU]T;Y[F^%X
M+<&W#$:2&E"ML;;/$FNLZ\F(;$'9/@`/5JN;B-L_F"1ILQVWZ0<:T2)RS"0J
MMG`W@0=QHZN!'(NRB99S_^_OSG;T$08(%O4H1(&?&G95:O!P2_(S99D?WOM?
MS]U.K@+U!#G=`>2BBS(=US[P'NKS.0J7L[-PT@=2<,%?7[D7S@#.@050!!X@
M!=-T_]<P%"OL!1'!>0J$M-`,A#*_;';'[__83?`HI6.5]?B`"UZ,(-E]T?#\
MQK`_,I)W<$#DW5EQR8X?924G1"2[.:S:N'!R__NT:*^FJ>C@-HX]D`;&H4G1
MUT7MM;:V1W\=)M2`&?(=1E+6O;1I_7_4?Z+A%JPCR-IX_Q&6T($*1+2C'5QL
MN3>6Y\\>+.<SMRWZ>$*\W=\(#/ZC;[="\+W-6+X'\[D+!T+"]AQK>9.-S-`H
M_:TW?0)4*&[P1M/.Q0LV?82&Q##'5"@NIFO'=+:_`'P_5B6_%QF</8`F::M(
M]WC/SHMT_1SK.S37]3(8EUU(.;2J/IKH>ZJL;7USEZ$$(&B9ZAXBA.^;=U&I
M@;\O&$)#.Q>;"0O@#1`M`Z3)`TCD4"8OG9?,^G\EDVNJ=9M"]EU7-)3W?H"*
M#([+.LF<A.58\(O];;\-!A,'P.D@+.]09GXNR?Z.9LOG-0G]C\5D^RN)HJ,&
M*"4/=B%4VK/E:6`704)X3FWT/$6/LQ5&((CU]-ES`&!\FFC:WM/JHYO[HY7>
M+!C##^DL!S*T(`!>;D7Z"!*0U5]O"EXE*4OZ3"+555S1BCY"'@Q06S!J*98L
MZ1&DHCO:V[]`++9=WGN`&38]H3Y8*OXA=]C295W4W?@@D&6$6^]HA3/XL:<<
MNO]PD>OT7I^C2+AL^#"S8R[#LJVKWXW9YY`T6UY?T$XE:><S[,?:>8F@O$O1
M[DA7K4[3'U@HXS(+4,<]^SO)%[[>:I`KP7!DLE4$&N*#A`YJ)0")V0E6]8]C
M*C]5PK(,2M>TP3OD++<R0+!%GRT`@;:=W[*=NY,6.HCLV4@J'[$;W%!:=O^7
M(5IMJHFZ[+/O='#<B@W(HC_UVP<(H+[18?S9'/U+!<$MA7N1>B\4P?FN#$K"
M8.N38*!=QD8W6.C^DK289-<10?!Q*]<ZSLT>PW,,T280K?48#B,,5IJW$"3G
M4EMN+$W6].G_G=78S=7^9@%N8B2K>@H#C15_R"!)W-;VWHZRHA<B1<=S>/+O
MQ,+@F?;`294[CZM=A"&T*CRDV\F%&K=SN.SWJ;3WY`K]6+"/ZY)LBB?;*.SH
MK2E&FRXCA*8UV'&@/Z.]A9#-Z)>@)E!4$G88`.L;4@!C'L<2\V,`^?\;5-//
MT8YWF#"N"":SMR]WHC@%0&0]\VM\<"O/!DDZZ>?[P/]V,*I!SFA<0`8#&)(]
MF:[8Q1/FB0IHC^V?[+L&T7=CF.,2=$!1HL4OXYT'X;/+D@0.33(/^,TTS%0,
M]SP81N!I7(\O(9*=QQA7&O8$5WNF9K>"P@AAV%?CVMH1H+KO>ED>!G%=3=,&
M^O\J:6:X@O&5#QQ8W1.B339]*-V3($NU!E1P[O*:7<A<O-:1/4$V"S%:P@T6
M?>$`DF,.T4&,^SW-L[LW$`4/:Q"\@/I)1,&._`[/]R:6!-S(`;1.`GB#<]*\
M/QS[B*ML[@'[MT<1G8_H618F=4?O-I9/J=NU!136I(%53(\Q[4L8Q<%,Y:SN
M8$GX><`M2W+8^X>0LOB._.6V6!#.;=@AH;8QV/,EV_\18'`N;]LU!BP0[3Q@
M%O=UDUD?/^@?3=?N8@OVK[NR0#)X(#F[F.+1:$`#F$R1?0]C^2/+,(9[%(IG
M8QUCC=[J:E--`:055.UP:L^IA!#6U+(R2`X`0++9%0Y0DV`"04Q/E`2J;Q^A
M8LT'MLKU.">%5=\$,SU#0F*K^Z@+U@%,+L-1]I0'ZV1>=2#P@PYHS0'D-$#9
MJ0"*T#[PS.=Y=__.#IRWJ\J%1%#6A"D&3-0GU_:6%]#1?!;+LJ$,Y'-@+M\4
M7:8[ZV<?@>OP&-R*@&+3YYD=0Q6%<1(Y)$]V38//<X!T!Y=:KBS<=I(QFLS9
M%R@4?F-)'H7GVIB4!<'E%+[DAUB:E\$XOB:Q[%E8!`\X)FWGT[4[N2(G-I1]
MM2`685G7/+XX.`^+ZE_JXMO>[?P'B.1S.*[5MUUQ9[5T1WUJ]#QS_T"%:Y.I
M+2J7C^MUSN=ITUDZ:]_2SU)M$^HI%<Y9_9$F^/T@@]>P&``H$QX0+#!PEXPE
M#0X7(\!'MF-]1(!P`TGP80J)A^D,6SQAR'9G=M786#Q_)I+95&,*HC,8?`LN
M"+/X=GJE8]'?:)*U#^Y*CH"C^Z-9U?\O2L=">)VS!6.HE[JCA6F#`3WH8';^
MAG46O[YCWS8X#@6"MLQ:S6(SB_Z627,=1Y0'C@67:Q-*D^M`!67)":W!%2UM
M51]AW&$4EOTOC0=G"/>Y`1)58EB%$61'$-J6U_0\!G]RME/^C^YI/\/S^)0D
M.P*&+O_N:6L[SL5^I=Z3[>42`YYHLH4UK3'T2&[7/Z@<@$^++5YKV1W=FP>B
MINIE@0LG6_7BFNP)YG8OD^^S;+P3ZUTW=I65D@8H/7OP#RSHPF?)30`F&%@3
M/]NK__^&2QXVH)$+Y(!]"E8AT=BJNN)M3<!>B-'<@Q]\)4!^J&'%4[),5Q5@
M;7A;H,K3$;)MC!R(+_X'PVKVP+^(3T9J$P7@",/M%45M\7]*0?W<V+YMWE#S
M2)KA<H[M^6K_WB,KMS1N_Z/W'^K8[7V=".,,OK4_O*!<6-IV[@*VK`/U$M2`
ME%,871@LPU!I$4?V0Q_#2U&^YZJ*?_:_[LL*<#+`7U>VHE;X/T*XN[G;30><
M4N&]V]>NT+^H-/N8D6@#]HP!-^Q`;BJI`U;TCT7@68FB!](V:$W$N0@C`E8V
M_$`##\%A,9[?ZLM[96UIOEV4+.H1M,D#<1Q'[A]?W#9=<V]>J0#*3E'Z8%:Q
M9J_1[2O&LJA*XL/LMNX2\G4(S\/[&\B7#%AIBC;"GF%+%G6`^9[G&.\`@AW(
M&U01W0/`37#O+]J?[ZV:@*[;T3('RT\%+@.UO]P@=`-`_:)@^@Z0`]`8#3`(
MV*36@'"T-BKO3HM^"XG.@&T+?@*;]V\)]'W;PC8MRZ:L3(ZVW?`KJIT-Y&>5
ME0<2?QPPPF[;+,]G`;*(NCN_#EB$RBY!]SQY/Q1\+WQQ'TJPQYP@_T@M"&^#
MNEX%\DUSEL=FIU.T?4OUPDC';27[GW'KGYZ2.*NDK>VU7#LZP_=9_Q;W/BC7
M(&^0____E_R_4Z?O_TRH&P@Q*\`1)*0X[BXAV5,-_3PVVM;-Y#%9T9R/AD:?
MT_M4R-W`D:^Q)SB>"!(S8:EB12`7T-T[==M+&:!_=J#GQ#Z*H_6WTMLAO_`+
M-.`7SO0/33;:.XCG$3-+T3&VA:D>L;JO7)L!9C3L:9)H914Q3QN0UIM]TAV]
MVIM1SX6W_"+%F'^^(%A\21J6`&-[4DJ6[F@RU=:K&#<0C*+H=8K@XM;HLK(H
M=Y;T8#/3D63G#'!8+]O/L4WT3EMT2#/?-^62<?KNME13[F':@NNZY_HTC+FL
M[Y,UP8[H!`74V]#6!4?V@9)F"]I3'">1H`$KB=`$6?I_8+6AG+L'C.-DPUQ3
MDS&=VG&]G%-AAFN;M?]O;H<EGW<:;L_W',BJ)F6KK>6<U@%#_)9C^BU4T-MC
M?,GW"(YC/\"^`)XQR<;=G>]Q5;K#RU#A_^7ZK3C.&Q#GF5Y!-0T_>J-`M?VU
M#!I)$*Y!0&/T$"(>H`I@H;LX12@#=`O#*R++:Q"R!JS%2/([DFU:7Z)U.`$J
MVVI_*?9#*USGJIZ-KR64V]Q/>-N5P.6F1(D-]CC><,!-N\E5^W>5>CZOVG'Z
MP[0B__G];M+5!SQ]!CG;;*D[1[7R.PV!E%MP6]N^(B^`$0XK$(\?&2D47;+,
M]7:Q[O(&*FL-RRT_^@\&55.]9W.?SA:ZK#;;WJ++(X$50SY%2K&)HG_^[&!$
M('M<I;+HK';W9@47$V'$%>VZLY<`!=9]&%>2.5OXDTRA9\@<.;(O:ML&53TM
M.P35M[![W3'-6YSWMALN)FL^YZ'0!KT:I!.3+,U`P@;S3-+BVVNT`H'*4>4"
M]^H/A/:`"00((^J/`B'P5;>#*5Q?@`5#8'X+$-JP[]%-5R5(Y@;:"ET,2.IH
M`W5.D2`A)5HBE=E(X5(-P+GD;+_[!YKA5L3L#.X]#T[S;1'7;'\M;_\_%A3-
MBP.3DP6=(M\#@G-,6#)#L:NMZNNXV<7QA@'P[_77EM++!(KHS>[7(+H4C$O1
M,H+,X+#!<`F4-5!HA;SIOQT/[LH$A*N*LFF4.=5LMW$E_X(P/0+D2U4Q9#?P
M`W.N`1>D931LE+P?EN@)NFRTLE3_K__1L@]H8C[HFFQX!X7!"(FR]GL99'O?
M!:(8##D3`ES])P%M+^!@781`L?=$Z`FD>S(+RJG@L*PQ-%S4%O>P^PLH=QL8
MV6E\R2EX*/;4P#"<GW$\JWKG`4SS9U$Y!=6S\65I)'O3A_W'0LENQQ9MHDPC
MT$P%UCT8&$OJ#F%P"\%6=G6?8]@`=S-+6_!64*P-?9RM?,3>CN_?Z5E(KU?L
M8S"4#TO*957)E6`XDQQE3[!7N=R[GZ0-T.Z2;-"'L@2.C<#XMD-5,@W/51[\
M<6)]3\-#W&A"HH!"F!`=-`"`?\B!H%*F-PLA'!)7'FH%-+17X$;/(F=?M+@>
M(W*]0(UV.YN`0^/+]OK!C744-]/>AX/Y=CR]'V.(-]T`Q=VH-[T8#B#$\.O_
MF_[GH9!,BW=J07P.ZG,'IF\IK)0`*J39#2C1'VSMM2(`!0C'\#S'MK7@:UA!
M71Z>O$"[%Q&BA[N@W%.)X;O`*.-^H]_*H\+@VK8:X&[;WH5Q;>_M7/\_`!,.
M2.+>%?^/L8!XDE?Q($<VW3/>L:JZ^F?_[@4RN)^X+*J3"3P+(?\D&7YIR?_G
M_M\:97BH8:N81\FHGJ!J]V'R'(?F.H>G',7;5B%OZE](UVYI2';4%D37]LIV
M?Q5"V@WD`#LAFL,8-L^6'T1[E3`.(B]G%X`*[["AWI5DSBN&MZ7;J[_&5K5]
M6P`@5;;MOBC+2PN:K?D/G,,S4)KQUL:B?<\S"Q'R=,$E;V/:LN/4$?JW%X#O
MG[F_J7O3U_*^()T*RM*'DB9'T,!Q;*WF1';7.Q=$5L.XF;I,=N$!<!X%44!1
M%-0A`L,-1;$!ZD`X)(Q'(R@^38%Q?60V%<A,SP;#`9S2NLCH.1AHPRE1SFNP
MY.]JT^EM.P7'=V.N:X`_H6&[7I8+X][H;-=?H:.;&866H%\&@?$.B>%+'L4G
M_[^RM4G)@'3`?/5.;MMQ.&3K>M0`!>7[(P:(4_4_"_?\0*-F!D/3P0/0]L(8
M4,GV>J5L4OA4+=N%O/%_&4LO$$2])Z.CF:#2?:B#;TY\(7\^G&]>O(@7G9Y%
M=',@D,4=YUYAV.H:*\!*<O`4EFN2W2J85]B^X9;=6ZDY*Q[(4>5M8:U/LUQI
M0"B$[PLPVT50)-MZ?@"X_.7`PGV78_NK)3DU"=Q1E+L0!]2V?H0*RMJ;ZB80
MD/7_I2A[>S31?@`VS`"[RE+65U']S/`LSA.X53_&6Y;&`%QW3V;9I65;D+_S
M1]]U"&5OGG"`S;2^O$@5;>N"/)&@/<^UNVBVZ-N@+O^09_YID+5+S7.9!K/4
M/'?B$['"`VGBH1HX<.E0M`?R0.W^,1R^H\)5C_<FIP:0374>M6=_1.,X,4*3
M8(]S)F-T5:19?N:,3CH@EC8[$,SV%4ER!4<TT)SY_T0')'^V!3]V)&$`+>GW
MJ%331=-1W@P$<CW-G$^8O<2`\Q+K3BY,_&5_;DVR+&B]V7<JT?:X1WCV*G-P
M)QK:=?6NV=H:$K;'2WTK[^O_9$SO<^[ZJK*-70]L7^=`V]\U_;HS.@-`M;(6
M),#9?JPTDCEX#$B4MEW;[SFV>W/U,=W;Y\_FW;)L@^>6GNP:_U-R$!:5^YO!
M]W;L\J9DWYV\TA._2<!D4[5>]+RNY-@BNK)I"0[VH`^T/,P$(R(#A-0`%&X8
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MD-Q7W^P'GM]3%@/P@QD/Y/U=@(`:AEDT4*$/9N&C$AW#/0C$`TCGH.B!.M"F
M/P8UAK8L9^B#B>M_0-5%##LK%>,=8-NNX_21L"C_TC)XD8!IX?]PT$[(MQU:
MX]L/<JUK#U%F!U/L=VS=7L#^?W0R;0;9B<UW6`';`8%H#Q?!F2:;KG$^=7*2
M_J'TT6UY?!=7^ZYAH-OJW3O@CM97_^$(@[OKF9Q40[>5:;)H&G>._@3UT/[-
M]+N)WF-K-]_H[H(UO1XD^I%GMQRPA8NT@VR:84$_;MA`19\-.W1_BKRSXP/"
MFRF,V'S)KLM[A/T7[.TQ"L?BUU?;KFC>]<5MAD`<^:D!+H`JVI`,E-5UEJ;L
M^AN[[\]^(#::LT@\F[Y#:7,/O,`+F&C97/>VM'_V#XY03%!VX'$M`_]4M9.[
M+%YAQCFA%,!Y;-'S#1"6WI@6U-.D)7)?Y6XK$MABS.01>*HHVV0+S+'S]O9$
M(L_>+NC>FDB<_8;%Y.-**KLW3F)!C^EM+S-!.CA0XA_6X'<NW<\,FI,Z][C^
M_24V>VR]]V;K6SU5Y0P)`AO;Z75$JVU)7A$HNHO)LJ!OLP6;^Q$9@;>:HQ.8
M=2]KD+2!\M8SX"\3RO;8X&8%'`,#&`PXP`4#O93L&>SK+,#Q<1';'UB:\V&#
M?_B$1H1?6-G1M$Q79AE"1ZN%JX&3<P4(BXH^0U)\A&=XN)[MXOW9[E)0WPD'
M#!LPDI4]AN?[&<ZQ8NT@RC;<T?-BHI=YP,WW)/PBQZYC;X<T\FSX#&:R`/Q4
M.,Y6N'V49'\7@,N_A5=^K;R-M5Q@NFA?`JLV]RX0WS2\L990CA/#/',L&[N]
M\X([N#9,57(3V6\`K@4_I2E?\T([&QCK17R'J^K9EK,EA[$AF^[]):)Y@*UL
M/OXY.)[/4!VGH5A.(6UW'5`&['N,=M_6;&$7U`L\SV?-D([`@6<*ZA=?-@>M
MA\X-=?<:\`/MF(>2XD?ZKU=%<\37^L<F.^XLWOD=V>D44#S+G.WX<Y8I/<D"
M4Q?L)4';V,])VV'494&OK4X&(3^U`15O.DI.JNX&,$CD48/O>J'K^6U+?8#;
M@4$(T""<D!"1"T`>2.C-[JUQG4J5W1RM^K5A6^.R'@R3H90#AV##07###`@L
MBM)M&UT3]+X9UK^"':5_:XSB[#QXKF3WW%>3##*G&+!*X!H$\:<BFB=.\C\C
MF6N=\[C!\4!#]&`HVVKO(I!AGU/XF1#%=QTH9Q22[.OGL1"V^Y?;?6\SMFLX
M?9>7(5E`N='0CF"Q+:M%;.4+SF#7XXC+SXW[MLZUK(_7`KH%"%;&LKN_4I+4
M?ZG*D8(LT6;`6+.['"BAM:3911$"RWIH55N-U3.DR(KEQNF(8M<<T(\H<F#?
M]@,;`"E9^_-^"49->'P7<NY-XN2%4L]F]Q9Y.Z9AI^#S.8%K!W9FSS1O:4^,
M%[BC&^TACC*:_Z."9%')WDO+RPUTAK/)V]%<MF&>#<G#_L\56I[@:O-8/_W?
M#P1G61>^C2EP+$_V</E^3(;DH5[7C;&*A36,--AW0;]IMSU%;-O_JH+V4['I
MN_)DA7TIB\%++&V;+O?U/6^!BDK'YIMNU"YQPC%`:)"K1B*4=S^8J)/M11,P
M`(#`,D$J')"PP1(0O4'Z8Z'_@'C>K1*-A=5\6+F]FV=R=;P!*7NM$=#CD>69
M\')9=K+LJELO_G!(LIUI(]/E8;)'0'SOX`4.P$JNRE(,5PQS;.A9F=$OF-GO
MV<%)W4P?LFW%[8<X+;PY(;+C*;F>I-T9<)">I6"ZL:&L!5$;_SX"3G;WOA*^
MY_`5BQ^*[K@X/9EAR<R<D`IIQS4U!2I:@QL"9OD,U/8]A.=]`<8%.*@@L:D&
M^E^-[S)87@T([C`<WQ]4V:X^&><Y-,3R2&TYE:Z=WM5FN'+GE8".8Z,<;N,#
M8E->R$)W*V=;>AM0H/\6!M+91<GD8"B8/QO;MKL[Q)GC_V66Y0_*_<O)-(1O
M5?8%,Y9K<&RV]!'B]EJ29!F`\;:O:-LH=Q9W>9(C.:<[^3E38&U-#M%<P*VH
MP=,'(W0,U^(0(3(?3*I`V0I$C`":Y4$6>`3#J>#:1?,[.]^D9,;Z;2*C*J]2
MZ*N@D?;8K_IA797H&5;?LWWOQB7GL?*==8"-L[++<B%XMA^6.<E&V)9W!)$=
MW@_KR>(]B>T[BD;HRWRBU4#_,$D.HM9D!O)MB^'1'BA1DF_(%4_26;:;W8(-
M'7#QKA,)RA%`GD.`?:?*OXB'EKU]$D+W<0&/Q_"2(<C]4$B[3$T=P(_50(>I
M.$Z(\RVHPCY.8/B"8=NZHX?1;^^1\`.))0^5*[YD482C>+)\.YY"L!TW_0S0
M<P:*[SR.K:V%3#SVU\X0DFGNZB;5[K:-5[4CX1RG$+;;NM@^^#\WS74@':@#
M.$%]QR.R*"]GX#@<SKO@A+/]2R9S!K'*V<$4)7#Y'+)!.61R+1FDKXD,F!D%
M!N$!31JJU`@9!6C-L`+H*G4_DIBF^J.#!1XDT8V2_^L/]&=%15/KP@$W[#A)
M=@0[AIM#F/9`"B._;U,<4F8XKFP'&7`"&]S=;]EFV*\["=7W/)GMNWJ<S"A.
MK-]A<&3/X07O`0I]3:8Z&!;8NV1M!OU#O6Y:6(3J=YN.I&R;>B6UX5E:0TC?
M@%@'/9:E[>EJR,T\>SV*XSO*?<ZR&7&Z_]O<IN,6N(8'Y'UHQ]['-Y57"?<9
M.=:-K9`4FE-\?_!%KW6;UGT+Q'=<#)7I1,L@I<6QI1JZN2-(HYM4CU-M),6*
M_9C$XA0^W=_E.X`(GEU7/=/_L73/&9`\GU-I/$'8=GP&E-JWZRK*5_ZO,9?W
M_F^*\IP]P%H*@PVJ:BC;8\S;DKYR)@>'VW;4><ZV]9,/_,-0.)HUF41Z&,3S
M/)SK)F+=VR3`_!/GVNOQ@N0-H.9//J%[63<-$N0`"A5<#0DD@@*N=`'+F21X
M:6=[!C.X`3^;'%1<BQ<YYHL<Q6G9@W<`JG\SK0Q+'\CH;@O+3J4T/),0O0,I
MNBP[NJY'%3'P%"^#$9)5JA?J=SIL<#96LM^4QKB"$*TRW^H?UX`R,&@+7/)`
MAN^#:&@FB%LBN!8^K+E=1T?U4$KT)!G.7`"]0,<!YDEV8$CP%V&YME"C_?=P
M'1>RM]UOC1;MIUNUF9Z.L6VGM6T._G3WEG=3C4X$9)(OMJ,XSNSF/I0?FW=1
MH.OLJCU+JIGA6]>N3A.X=?_-"-\_(1#\Q+!+*W=)MN_<VN@'>(L]:3N(XY`F
MJCC6`"\A/(]"VO;U)$2^/Y-`)$")YWL!S"S7_$J=G$4@6MJKJ;8]CR'H!4)*
M,;P-">;UUFR"(Q3`ZJ*=2I9LK=J_5R87%6)DA[A1B''J!V,#5*!%3T2W9^IQ
M0/D%0-.A01@]P+H&0T)!?0U8.@;V&Q9]&PWK5C*Z9QDM041?$EJ&?`F"R``8
M]W\`SF9XL>$;4G0E1++T(9T,]P"Y1L:GC>#&B':9-C\1S'4.GL`F()U%!ZN_
M4P;2K;L&6V2JJQ1TH7Q41T#R3.3M0N.9"5O;FQ(=]U2TP^I!N+R!I@&NK[-(
MOMY_,1;*NJZKE[6*-[&CDV%]#\/X#D#$L4O39XIE'8#=[5X0RW%P.#;]KFI?
MQ$';6OW]HQR8^VH5Y]>UBW`\M[')]L@K&791D&5'CP*TQ',<P4EW+BB,G)+%
M_VHJ4RTU<;7MJJA@%/)5+'@^Y4UNX-W6'MN;_9Y@6WC%?ZEH/FX']%[G?C9@
M2H%,A@\(`45R57W91II/IT@GX'LB(IM?U)N=B(J25^CTFG:1_HO@6`^6[);Z
M9E6U/J:K_2J`]*TLFVG:)GFROZU92_@H]G5]WN%_&HMO&L<HPQ]8=$?%,CV=
M83NQEN^K2,-%C7S#.4I.04NUWS/`V7'-QZ-MC]9FW\>HME0-;\0`W2T>ST#K
MCD=D69L6LT7OT$AF:7^;?4OR-WA0?NH.CJ1HYR-0?<^<6!;2S1L]'W!4DECD
M6>K954G,E5V6Y1"JN2"AM-Q'$)S*N@-8V3"0C:%H$$QP@.690)K*DCK<$^S)
M-PR@P$S*42WOYK2=*!@C[T"%]DU+],+^&:EPEN5=#'Q?5"3'MJ-LS^,.""C9
M=^EP9D.9I;CT@!G:X$<:W9'<T1&`LA"*]>^]_[S1\=?^SF[PANT?.L$<V6[O
M2KXK\W@<!YR;X&$X*T7HY+;V!'%0@16R78<%S+HJ/U\=8?]_D>\\"*&C0*'Y
MG]VQX?)N?3^FQ-:K>]T!2.E6L>]?8`+?(Y.<01,<#D%R'HUOFU&57Q385AF9
M1#W0MR?+3:>`"OS'G)W:NQ4UE1O(/0R>1UM-N_L7-SQ_MKJ"RAS`Y/%[K6MO
MJXNRC2<.Y"W399WS!HNVMVS\/.5N:]Y1U',UFR<4F/1I@5'6.8BZ7,ZPDYBS
M^QKV9K5E.0`WV-L@NA_.SQ1E"1LN0`&-]H&F#0<."F(!%DNB>\".=]&2J\)\
M=V>62\`TIR/".!O0=B$TE,=2+%^DJ"8%4VSWHB5[WI&K.10\>QLJ^>B`2&JT
M<)+D&*<7HCB2E6\V2<D5'$]`)KMYSS)E1^&1O)!NVWKALPH!7%?&=QZ`Z56*
M=BH7$#L!U0$(Y\8FALG1@O9C#-6BCM1;GIQI<*;^_@XSET!X_G[@`T:5%;@'
M@-&&I6VX]$_^ARS#2UQHY_."<@J8PH97@8D&>GL-B$4EN?N`UCZ6Q=UX2X=+
MYS)M#Z8*#-%%@IG9""!WVX'<4)&=6`WBMHI=6M0FJ;08WN,<?,_/W$#\$>:X
M,@123-5&EJI2?>[D*E>'$KQ,N)U?P7>MZ(U%R1MAGD=8MK9G0$%8UA*GUZT`
M7)8,YH7&S&0(6>C/,UH'`(Z][6UJ!*M*SJS=`UH8@PVU-ESQ>A*/OP=PN/3!
MG@>)/'R#^SD1"2KQ@'NAX!H$4'X6".Q0I@OB``G&_>W2:-!R.+7FX^SD"TR*
MX)XG"%5N18B^@":Q\H%IOK.CDK_+3&_@TMW!;3@6RG68`3]`)&_RTMV)&7W2
M"NJ6SMW9C7-K0&)=;T!UO)[K.HS<\%G+/J]AL8HW'LIQ#Q;9O0LT&I!D_R-:
M="`=E]4/KB@#XN7^MA*C][XV*?YBA#/2F<O"=!L5B+_O7V!2^)>V/5BI6%ZY
MSAT%WN$C1]`Q7=;)MT':'(5CB#>9-_H5R/4;$=]S3-G#["I3P5:C!:\SM_VO
MYU0%\GT`AC49;P&-I?6582=F^YZHA[./;4W[A3H[E6Y/Q8%9HMC;?J!A^KA3
MDK3,]K_5M7>8D^O(-<?A6U;V?":ZD=ZY*CBCL;9QC2-9`""*;<U=/VM-;NEH
M4QW]4\#:$=9PR^ZD;INI_ZN3/R2X!W18VZ/*6!8Q_3^ACT9],-YDWF\4S=$4
MT6^UV3X`6NS!0:[E;7P4T**!654@=43`L`=Y(&/_\U35REI9D^P0===7UK/U
M4,KV0G%V>5'P.$=T;T>VN0I>'Z2XF(AEY3MID_G*T8J=Q^4ZLU?H^##%BCY7
M3394OE6;7=OA6_8@.-6N+N+=)?<\2^\[GS?:*%`417N%S[77.]2U>4BE_/_G
M_TV1:U/<1!)+TP'":Y]!YKJQ._J[S[>V7S8FBVD2]PFJW5(2;#Y-O-)6]T>W
MVR8CY0RVN?;[UK63^;?U'V5;Y(@@%K"V*N!_-9QFEO:C%Y1YL&IB*%F:W?4(
M&]Z)56SN*-B;?653;Z!E.;5C6S[#;KF-@\#B9Q![CN!CNXX;PO=MOJ5]A]M3
M@+'.'<M0'F=-=E0)Q/[B9&NMC11:C=O#29"?ZMMNVP'L'/[GCGZO3O:^N3Q[
M)TQATV7O@9`=6IW=7IK\P0Q16?;W5%8PWB3?3]U$'^#SK?;N?F#1UQ([WF91
MB(L#Y5,!(5#@$AEEJ^`:!R1TG$"=G^K?U&S;F1^56ZZB4!W2I?J>D^((NF@0
M;39%=$%3=/W_^M(-E^DEMJVFJK0V.86:R7T-N[O+]"4K"%>S!TYO,+W0F_S.
MU4E<%])$%Y&2#>:^;FN')$'*H=G:`]'XOB&+;M!?V-5:!G]D9=MG6-('U!@@
MZ6^<.Y\8Z4NFG<.DNJ/'=T7'UMP3E=0:_5FEN*,GVM;?X=DV7BE=;#0\&<:S
MK!IK+^4.+J;8J4X[X)8?T-$$BKTTS;.VC_572I-Y1$ZCLXV!T$Z)907"WFRW
M^K',=Q"S;5=O(,\N+\E>R^9*8SJP:5L16B',%MIC@=A6],$JS3O4^ZY68\%Z
MIFH[\\XDCD?YB'(K/F2SG,>?;>VV6R_X18WH^I9R<D?[2G\H?16I9QBH)HA"
M_U:E*[U"US'B.8[.L>$[S.T:`L.])6@;_EJKT@?/&JCZO@`-@5RXTP-2`@%0
M1C2@.`H(<(.HPN=Z"=!W+R&%OR,\IS61C27(PC0D&>@]PD\>1@F.`K!XH9GN
MQ))-@M8B9'8KP?[%Y%OQ"T"!6*++#F@6`!\U@>FZ`4'HV$`X/].U?V%5DAX8
M;/IC?O1M0=OS#PZ*&0]#8W@KF^=[;+Y3^+:C4IP+!^26[)!\G%3[HW]WD;;C
MFO=K75E2[_)@I*4;CA,$4LUM9:9^)\7S&`Z3\U%@_8>/$H_E)@#?5/Z."-=E
M1637)7@6UAPHS<T1+-;TH<[L66`8-K\J$-2>WA7(]2B*[T<`$$XO*3G+39S9
M$UBV'^BR3UIVL0%/&"S6]M$,-J]&VXY+]5P:B=)^MG\+'MHKB::/DP3.3G59
MV.?HRHZ^292,9!C'\`]1.[L&SYI:Q+;UU9M>`3NNC[#M^BYI<G>4XK)T$%%8
M7H%1&,N7MI\$<3BTJIT#+#0&0I\5[;E`>"N^GL^RJU_7X)Q8EFSHPV&VO_NV
MJ,<7%!?2[;L4MBMJDFU]PH&6CO)'3<D;O5533JQ697:\X/N")GXP:14X1P92
M@0`4?YAPM$`,2W1;KN4&ZNR1*&W_3#RF\5`6^]XM+*\UE<.Q@`SGZ9)J$X6[
M_H](@W-O)Y;[B#U'0D%;Z^N:,_!NE.&+]NRE@N3R9L^]2(H]&`5`@TB6G1?#
ML?6+6+I3P&F2MAG\>U7MPFHL.ZQ9_:[5/::H_<GE>H+2=TR+PY&,Y56JS=-6
MAK"=<P!:U`0:E1V]%0^:(5#L"E;U$8ZRQ9?$.XU)\UD1POZ3Q*V11+9=8#\3
MX"Y8:!+P;4S%@C>5;@M"QWT(/B*&E]7U8%]V*^WN0!.RNAKNJ$_5F>7=?GN/
M!&*:Q=4LOV^1O9_0O-_1J^I\6VM"MBPO6K$6]&W`?`1P^Q0:&B10!1*M`I1@
MG&`:*;N07O19P9XL06M_>`/>3X&&4\#+VY":^BN8Y^%\>W%=;RMELNR+;.5.
M:)&:001'<%D%CT>9F0')J+P3(_M-@5K_,_\OR7-<6=@&V*9G@RT]%+37,54O
M^Q^,:#H]R>(2J.1SNMT*#L^6&WZ3K;N)B>\4M."8!]"J*='R/^-&W^6Z-E-G
M-NY>^,"RKU60/5'7MF1I:1\,R.9'FZCK/<RSNLZ%>1XG1'FHD2*&YN!DU:OZ
M`Z6K(*;-55"SRZE^CY,\!R"RL5L>Q9P]E./S/0O'KJZM`_4X!CLB^C;O-?8M
MJ5?\37&^]93R_)>2Z`1"/L=K<`6B.!G;=CRP1=%".)L/2L$"RF$`!C70L.$'
M!/):_0=B:%[,A[-9T3V$[W6,Q.1Z&P?G4X;=URS@+UB4G=+%;LNI-(XI&,7W
M":VWGU.9%CVL?N=1[C\@SX6T>H7NZQ;9D\F>TQL,_B@W;'@K&,T_:$0N8=N;
MR;[?:P!-=X;W&YXE:$LN?!06Q<U];0>HZ6@3XRPXVV-,IHV\T35MI31[_UH(
M7WPH&Q\2ZEM9LYO:'PK\M+J\!<U@=IA5O=V@^E/`UW]93>^VMJ/R'4\P<FR7
MTZCUUD9`IK75T3G>6PK5Q7!PW-<+XCZJG<?5]GRN85^'.I[D5]T)0?(Y8?8I
M\8;`S8(A,Q9G6[$<1-H:7[_?2[;B,OE/Q>[)H-FI2Y37-.@>`;(\RZZX'L\R
MGV*LZY9\LOS9.^`(OK]_OC5;U7?H%!\E@K/P:-)[KC:&,,.`8[;,KEI,H=C8
MATOW=QR$_T-\_U"5L>[Q;-<-_&7Q%]'@#^BA5!Q%S>,)FN2G+B#B=2>([*4X
MCH=H*#!(CX;`8$`H7=0V?$'._/[>$9!9]7O\X(],GTT/U[^]X=S@.7@IF>TQ
M:MM$FCEE("NR#L0DMT/)WN8B.`]'9%[>MO\00;L[)3H*E<-)^;ZK_S^-\RPP
MONY?G.?S'`6>9^GW,&IR*G"RZN[^1Y6MP%J-Y"-F&"\QM#/85;XA@7,VL\)B
M]7,2C8V_I-^:&AE-,9XOQ9%APO[.[N]54:XMW='IW7U!'\-C&.I,[I"M/,(_
M'>)P3XCG@^+-"NL66.;<0R$,MM?$?(%LD<QKD,M8#B;4+#(`+1NF$8(`PL-@
M0H"V\</+J1P4D_QWV-D\K%UT6UQI:&.H/1\QTDP4*@(A.[EG3_`9W-UD.0(!
MY0K6FVS_TIHN+6"Y@]RTE+NDS;+R4F=]\4XEWA>PV0T(LC^KVH$XLIUX:XFV
MN1?I+'=D0GJUQ+&UW\9*9L:_K5O0\ZC8TAGHY_Y)#IBN>4@T@N>0DT-+VGV%
MY8VFM@I_PH`*&+[3RRUOQ`,RF:\ING(4"(2;09$.!_>MK5CO*1&)?^""&Y!@
M17'MNK`_I`:WTK(DH_BYU_)1F^:K(*$%U?8=>K;_`&"<U43B24;3:Z48CL;D
M67I/O^HW>*VC+;W2VF6`NVJN?%@7UNHG\I2E[RS27+=_P?[-W$S+%X$O<;7$
M=P<<-K?A?`.X#HQVY$G6O`0&VI8T,(E_P!QAV:M:J0?Q7-;(5`(PQJ\>;&\0
MG*T[G-3R0#L+&,*`D4VX%`$8VZBC05H-B,0%GJ"A"<8PI-%EH5W)?M%8SDJ/
MQM?'O.#7BOT925.`&!31M^C9[/"/D>V?>DBC^$IOV]$EJNT`BBC?,579Y'P(
M3_0XMI"3L^`,5+0>3N*^>-^%M+L<T_%^,,:6M0(`*XCO*";-&,$-FJ-]4^5Y
M8=&B.Q_+".4R&I52I%2)@YO:,\E\D^)N#L,ZXWPI@_/09?_1[C:"-A].D=3-
M7_X'E;:S#M@'<EE0\U+)3DPB6=C%GY`_"%C`EJX]&W<:PC<"J2[._9"4!JAH
M2!:`Z8-A1X8C+>_U-=FE^KOR5H(VW/E/F>VO]S`VV^HVB>S?FCV*[;D,@L]V
M4!-Q1@ED3(QSO,2ZB\EV$#K!'9TT=X4*K5^?W,D*:6IY<C6HY;MTQ\9>4+U-
M:7$L0>(=70[@L:KLNQ)@*3;)68.(<W4?J(N;53]PY0,2*7=\0_0%J&5SNCS`
M.#BD4(X]?3W6,`D[GKD7J(7%LDVH.E:1FSO;<'MT+S#_L>UB%BH)T^`P%^-N
M`0R$!2$.=L@0(940J(`T*^!^%R1R=LD`@^/YD$6WG[XNS+%&EX>Z#M4WBR0K
M4KE1>*<B^/;1S<DN!^4;[%S'L4W,2YE8[B[=XEL?CA0LTXN5DAZ<[YA->M:O
M^8U7]UY*<&]8-!'`&A`6_*A:=Q2SRC$&6$[!?0-VV=>S8W@6]%\#@'%:"-9K
M25PK7I2+,XA@9[?M%%*9:^`]'QSP0KK[V40GM,J.IX+R>W\9[/WB`)9)M/OU
MH:;[RF7V`'E_7=7NY!7:VB5=U*7]NA7"(PHDAGD.()$\TP].-M&"9_G::+/W
M.5".2XB2>YJS%RIH5O90KNV_YLINZ(VMBN?R7.<TE@."++>CJ@XLR_;5<R0.
M5[/"20T@`XT#"&%YG9-BZP>9VZ.,T1$<945/;B580SB6;HKM^9(IN[DJ6YCE
M^^/^FXF.KR$=7\=@.";)<3L_R9XG%I2;>[>DU]>V/X$T^UX5K-E`/+E_>&'Y
M,XLA'9XX_%T4V<_5Y<\'`JGF")+D0LYL83>]HW57T_-94=^KVFT-..FIY,&(
M!JF=MCDU(M4%E[L@01(H<1!:-*`-(@C!0!U([PW&2G>:''MK?0O3O4BP-@,)
M"W],?[,;`G>D)GL(3_,%),WV8"&&A7]FL5G@SS]`%>:79T?S,FU;WJ![>CXG
M<>+\01YL^`XKRE)[RO][_J]T.?N7ET6/TT:75S-<1^JXLM0Q&$I=-`Y/YB4_
M8TML`['3*T0YML*SZM5,Y3A&UW;K>AO>O671!O:A_4NQ5>?ADOR8K6D`,4X[
MP/FUSMW#N5WY;1Z,E?\B-9U]0!F8D&&JOJL0[+!5V_/^CTR^:[@]G]59]M%D
M!':`6Q9:N,"I'.TIYBVB2U3'0"0YLC/;VM;Z""]S.;+$V16[C:<\DR;;U@'B
MQG"2WY,)(O!\U^^[,1$G6^8;IG8:D^,S<-&.F[J7U0Q_"8XH6WD,`<^=Q>TV
MEBWY1D>RZ!%D=/MNZ@N]Y9\(,);'916:AVJ"BVI=QS6VYVJBC]MI;*GJ^D-A
MNXG']F!Q='!-VYIN]T8;ZE"C:K6V:O_\BK;G\KQ!@F%VASNYLO.H5,-%.X+5
M^I.N8'6_)$=)9]FBV)E<V?8%?H?O-5B$-UW*B'<UO&DE`80/$#@#"0+HP"DB
M0($=<!OP:/U;]T],5/D**1KJ3>0`MI"]!T9W<Z[G*#*^::'NLR2[!L+U9+3O
MOIADS:/)RX%QND-!?<.#]-W]3<3HX/>_\\@\#AG-U1X=0/,OM2(/.`<0V@AH
M:.1)G.AD_5'^8<Y=@FGS6BG+8ZBV"9Y\E_\KRK&I1O/M<#J&`<3-N!HO8$-9
M<03FP/ZW,)Z)>.D0+F"X[;-(1%;U:XI-C+,?N(*0G4-5TNR9;,?'P0[?TC`X
MI&RW\K93R<O>7IP7[(`33:[IA@=QLDR0-T3:1F"-\:V][&OY?+9T'&I=O,\=
MB:(\6_CD?'#O($)P48QN8T_B)7L\"6OE.RDRE_"W'1?\--[W>1G3Q?0L1OR9
MJ\T#424EG+?YMJ2'%F_K`T%,T0P[J3)63U><H5^G;`O?TM<6I?\.3-`F#J>D
M\@(<PIHJ_TIIV7QK_<<66E-?8QV;WMC!H`V:+)@/T]S)1/(QN@(8CH2(7"B!
M`8+I(CH)5#`ML!]A>JO/\TV2+'MT<%WYF21;6&UI/06.<TFS$<R1)-GG8)9E
M;X1@V&']2C$.$+G/XBV.H()T1H9HL#2E.+F[G&1-F@Z'\#HP0LH<:AC-\7^<
ML:$O6?L1@L#F?E?FFP2GCCQ87FAQI4I>19(\W)],1=KO.(T-5$90"=K)#:Z3
MHUGF,&8HL,?INXZ[?0@OL[RVT2>;[JY3A;;1#):T$^J([@)36=SM%_1)<*YL
MEG=XVR1%/2@`]O4.&-5?#.TIZBTGU+D?,/C^8_6=PAW8TE?H/-<5[ZFZ;,-W
M>SQ',X#XJ8S`21VSKB:4>.XM\EQ?97`KFLHWF8K)HKX28-QK0&O1ONYJ1_&[
M+,XSRS<%R@/B:Z/M=8?'\F>'):%E*YM6:C"!QG`F"MT&#F`]!,;`034*$`,P
ML#"YAP],!65G^5\870;:FL/S'4`I>1[)=A`'VYVD#`O^&&2PD*H/#'C.)@5U
M7QS*]%`/=B!:[6=PH0$KJ;Y7.FG2[HG_.W@@S$6*$,7S/@1$A^L_G!2\PB=T
M>G:RM\=40SDT5?,X`9&UE+DDY:IJ(3=E!5,!M$@-PO6=5.,\5888;.^KZ(KW
ML%6CU+5=P*(B^`<KFN[=K=H[!.4<=@B.B9;M?2=E6\5]&HLRPA[4VY;PUA]P
M@N29I6L`1PGWY"U[ZGBFXBX0PU&%'`^7$P14Y(?P1G7V4I;LF3Q'_Q^HVF<-
M7,_B^1S5O(W5?]WQ_HL([X#?.'`6U#-(Q6C'+,\]/=GM[!3%\OC>V2`W+WJ?
M36B,#U+"@P'!$3D5X#@$N`8!0D@&M&4G.$'/5JKFX!T-E9P#7:PROA8;#@7)
M'H,&]"T6TGVYP2R,53N!4O="(Z1#HSS?EEHFLW2=%YT!1>930J&%DC2/(&D^
MCF;9"JM$7FB>(&K_<.W/2M$MN4"L^52![BUNTRG<`BZ-<VVHQK3E``L_.%ZC
M$[H#TO5>(=>NWDJ_R235$')L@#J7AG1]F.NG8`#KN3\PW`ZV'_UO#\6*&OIT
M=Y)N^S.P7?$]K^60>([$L!C<XFPHX6:";6F/9MA!M+*_DWV/AS,<'.>Z@1/*
M*P2J[]%\&=I!:*X'DGQ;'T6[I34+F&2P?QN#YKXJW;6$[<]NKFW=H69YWX$(
M"I!R0)8`0?$6#Y&S;.VFFEV;['Q%7W8&ENUG&#C+ZG&B:5-U554O@B5YX?Z!
MTG)LMLL_5-O??[GV:$OR!'-B'#;7G-F^3W$L._I@$8-[Z\IX..%0UK8G\(DN
M"S<]WK4U'P.!\S^6;M-#J]HQ?9DEGR>/[HF&YC]\>&XS8(NI+;\HMZ=)!VPW
M1LMJ)!K1152@HMO>IJ90M[/!38]G#_<R'9CSH1R@4#;P`*B!`9&@=#"@Z`-]
MH`B,;YJK]&06)Z66(^'X4L$*629ZYK'X,<JW\LAT-#;X,TSHGNH]T[S]B@:S
M1#>!1U<BV@SS5[;(GNS8B]RPLK27]9_-#?X.$?`S.123O.-=JI,0>);TX/W'
M]L^K5YR"Y7-(ON_&0)ZXR>08X0^LWM4T&)[QG\7Z6U+6X^;VR.["`N!9)D5T
M7X+=G,"Q"2E;'X&B^RN<;`9_@/XIO3@;U[@`4)RT]0+9]34[7!#;3UF^4R!H
MW`81;'D[S=;5(%8X3H&GL>)'(!SKUVF\;S>\)?N];(>#,ET$S9,&WL8>09W]
M4+'EOP'WS28_BG!8T6<Q'&\E.L8PU$:-X!1L2RR.!Z/PKF7=3H04'P<P795E
M\W@6W8K/%.[BRER2/<$(3@CNL7[9;=S;+5AXP$@5DE-+^$Q4K0N6IG<'C);.
M171\[H!A2EH.9)PW2:-G&>`EW6CZZ8YLCEE&I@^*-)B,#BYEPCN:U0,"XA(J
M!<YT`"X8X`7NBH.+JK.;"Y(O>8-W:'VG8LG$7&O*7#^&RIX$D\PRA=&6%"1#
MS+D(*'/T]09\4'%E8KF&/?(4%LI-!CC#'?U_$F2CL+J`PO@,E>I6(B!G-X)[
MBMES3]=>Q,4+9[@T5/1=5]L/(<VWZI.5-W`/]6U_4B>C;WU:E"^R<5NVI39W
M0+"KC]`Y#BOQ_8M,D[U=@H86!RU`=`"'RYZWTY4+:;?D9=71Y<P^&VZZM'^7
MMWLK61Z#UYS;%'S);_NWKRUSZZT;\)H%UM_VX$J69*T[$Q7=Q_0E.8N\-GF6
M6@\#)5NJQKG<8:5(=O?[7(KO:C)_E68^CD2P\=%,[?ILT1)(F3S9^V6DP):X
MB8=ES>GBB99V>G&V*D]<H`08X1_RLBA_QL%S8DT[MF,+/32UT0L#]<D`(+!A
MG0K`T-G`E20@K!!@$!=@S$0@=`/GS`D&V=4(M`-H?)YCCTYAH\@?K77OENR)
M?`XO=)":L^\+*"[CM9C.ED=E4_11*X!'*Z-C6\GR[-;_Y]NB?XF3<Z`XGF'S
M_=&N^8+6M9NBQUP<LY#2FS(]B,=U'A:3D2S9'LVP7Q.@?-T,X`0^E3.X9$E%
MW_+IMO01<L-/)>U+9L,NXM:&_6O`-P"4@YNV/@QH<`](Y"C7[A\5B)98<5:I
MZSH^V<WLOC<Z]V._X@Y`+OMU==>W<?!;N,I6@E%,CS.9_FYT3.AU-)E45GL2
M.I()V5']UM1^SW!0Q=;9-MA?R/=Z((.3FV7;VTZ\%SB3,4B;<,6*:SNWHOXR
M),LE8<'4@,!R`[_,SFY]6NF6O8EVQU25N_[/IG8]62RPH\ZDL\V'UWHIELWV
MH[[@MT@P>Q]+L5\->&05^H+"Y``4>$Z.9G`N/,7OK<7;K":GTK:M08WA##XE
MVDI3Q4%4A@,.H>?;]L?N[)5FG&<;M_8?3(:GNE`6Z)HA,?Q<F'U7;OH2"XXW
M"K@L#,NC82VTEM>8U@1[RY_M>X0D.Y1FG[24T]@\CJ^=4Z+H'N[2'-RUAZI]
M3]!RR3-5\A0VD=^H3%LPXRL<7@DQW4'6-B!E?\4"R[1;Q6?%_F/U',T:V-TG
M*[+S*[<V=\$/4,!,YV(+>C`DEZ);*&282@A!TH'&&3#@8`G>F7G['_O?2.XX
MG*4<R!0<AT\88)XG'!#*S74AJ663;#(X][5S/<^.Y.S6;'4U^^.Z=EE'<A7#
M+FT26IHNZ=_>[[*DUY`DY]%%!S9FMJ2+H?C"W<,0K!/\Z=G!/8I[LD"<6RKY
MG!2&)]L=)^\_>']&]1[CB3*WVYJV(6B58;NNAGE08-MO6M,N;H3Q-W%P;#4L
M^][;;#F:JGR*#.+3:H:\P>)ZV^S)5O9<\O\!#EE="S]:)WF3U;'[ZZ3M'6J=
M*_KV=X7OM_\_JO=13[:_7Y/ML<9R$4VPJ">U:E;6/GI8EEEK'V@I*K=QZIYC
MI<O/=%@ZL`9X`X])X`;<QQW!B1(@3(-(<,O,\``CWQM]K@-Q@7W<P#8(^97#
M]A\`QBK*\/YR&$&6.+JG)GF:A^O':L\7;)D=Z12]Y:(2RV?I6)]%(_FA.SB/
M<-=09VO>2J#[W(!LAFSO(QC8+N1H;[61]+^>S/(J5;3Q%:6JEX@(-CP/%XX3
MJ]EN:RIKI-,MOM\(VNZ_EQON(8Q.+TM^#(21)39'SNYJRY[*Y]L0_Y'C99%L
M^TFC8<$?._&67UYS:2SWM3-9URHOVS%D)!^7V^1!]`6O4;['62)E1*@#`+AQ
M,,C`G1:@%0%Z(/K_8?T[PVA^BXC.C2N/YZO<A^EZ$\SF):YR,$1T6#B3W]/+
MSJ<Q[.[\Y+5$S]W90`P1#NR$\+[_2JC5B*+K@X--?R.$\7-\\#FH9BS51,O2
M?T(2;(:2#H:>I"=/PMK^0]:,4"8D)1^BV$P$5!=!BR:TIJ3_+WD[/M5T0D79
M]EFV=FI5^Q(,S>RP`=UQ8CS/,-*5_8?T7X/3#;"T20GACG"55_%ISL=RG40#
MZTA,@:>(VR$'K&#[[@5`F^P[0!6HY/-HV5)(T1$"^#L:P$T36K=K"-KC1>T1
M<BC]CTXRO+._X3SM#3"/=Z*Q5H$HB&\7DI4-9Q#FU?@60=E5S#/TEV9[.Y#O
M](*VINMJ&Y[`?\@\JY](MC.C;)^F4T1WV/]%-*XDP5#C1L?F2AI/(=O;[=U4
ME_%-804/[#=&\VQY:VS?MCZV0235&A#X,V$<VZ"A/`]`(JF`@>T#N6C)$NDS
M,ZP;&W$R6I[GA>='0IX_4*)3X*('T[/!80Q6=F.86[2S2OF.8F=ZEX8M*ZQ@
MR1,'+,!'H^)3>D9&WO^LGLK#,)Y[0L!8(-0$(X/1:7^?[H5&J@-)&`Q,*:"6
MMS](";Y@W;8W%Y4Y[F8#GAM1_-2M>#?1=R%,<@HK1FS7T>"N/SKV+&!P$/LV
MR\?R79LOR$L!@BQ\EW2U^QEV`"^*D[HP3J$2L']5L1M&V9_`W%:A/^,<&;:G
M2M[%6";89TIW8ZSMAUC+3_5LD[T?C3JK*LYZB@O(`63@]FK*)R):5TG^]P.6
M*T#Y+=[QMO\1U0(5P#)MT.Y\`*GW+);]$:J920%HVC#EX.J!UOJ`E0TB+".[
M,3L96C.`)1^G!P/D:_LOQB>W#?``G9W'8/H8B6";I250NH7GBVNCDXL8-#?'
MD;@3R/=*B-`_T+ZG\GUW-&O&IS3.*PK#JO=#1ALZ->QNL?S!9!K#68,&Q.4&
M7!A0!27P&#)PN^[/$'".0F!Y?H!_(+:!@<66JP*"M?HF<%"Q@^'X3\"^C5=U
MX!=C15OJ.$,Y/HW*UJ]$1]O[4WM[/)OB:S;(Q@YF<3@`:?_Y"))M+ZUI%MYA
M3IC@'I%IY=W?*C6MJT<8K@900SC0EWROK$+HM=F5O-FJ+DG7:%5/)EBV2\-#
M0%CW-PC/*6P[-AB00<XM))R#X&U^+&Q+'U*?S`6R.[L)FN770M'JRJ*_:=_!
M.$P+R_VC[X_<?[I2\Q22ZT(,RPP8"Y.3>'2[/T::+5;?LV=GY[H&<;7$%NR/
MBDE"<$P&FJL+MTV4H%:&<AW?L/OV+RR2'=O:3L'",!#`1MD+\:[GX@DVW=%/
M2/RV9#C7GNB!,$B7I4%;TYU5W-^@+<_PJ0IP0*=J0:H#[EY$X#N.3X487#`\
M#%SK@CS07J*YN=6RTC@!+$A/CH(LC^.WF;VQ"]A._6N<Y%<&I.56&=X#MG@M
M9QW0`IE<1,8RO^)XKQJI+2#.)]^&/LH*[OL<KF7:'?MSFW<*E6DW0GV!V8,%
MNS["<P-Z>1178)X[)"B[@VY;>PE^L&,UE^\W.B+YI=\='(K9GN!I0:GBN9QD
MPXGB5CBVLP_X@13PR``%E<V3[>44&G@^Y2+(?4L;(=@/'^U49`.C"TH7R$R#
M=A8,P7]89*@$'."^@1TX0"I3)7ML)T8('<SH6&5+XQWD,,RNV_I3J\9:HD"0
M`0#<9P;37=Q^6O1Z(].?I=ODG#0@!"#[#QI``*K3\Q7'M.C&O(*2N7\,Q\[G
MYDGLL?8]*=FO>12+#`_H`<S>(]I%<5A6Z?>:FE>38-W`THXBVB?-2.]@D20T
M/,;,9BI.CT')9GL6%H&'.NF\&PC/&)*V"?<;>]EU6T6&+4TE0=MD2V+KCZ\L
MN#4?J6['=MD.Y:;;]PBF:`S<5`]:+'!523VFMSS.$JD[`<HN`<8@@5HD$/Q!
M%I!)#\NREQO*A1`"U]`FWV!Z?NS8@>S)G=6ZEWBR-X$=TW$BX2372NXYQW[1
M9?B(*EKV<[8]QC='4"0/9L+)Y/N[G,*+Q)JKR14.SG2,MK_3[0],UT4LAO>J
M]PXEW^X;:,L.\/RLT'<TDV@&R+K_&S(=%S32Y&C'5>A.*J4[M3M93#Y'M&/C
M<:)S75JP3Y.!':'`$-N6=FV7]GP\"$,X%LM5PA2SL)T!8UG;5\B)W(O#MB@<
M@>?Z)]9B2VVC;S<%&OY#AN9B;M&!K9J-GZ"1''K_<K5D;2UIW!EEGJ-HA/ZL
M])W<0.`H'C+?E93_2AW;NJSF(3'M[]/Z1R/#&6Y)6>N;RB@P=6*B)%7;1+<0
MM)]K]C\=WB#DH#J*)=U8@V"!O%*5+.]3]2+_-DJF(Y7>FMG2#VJP=CALVY:J
MY\\@VT[>RG+),?TR?_:2B1;@7!/6JX1D(,T&0,@&EPXO`*2NK<TN"U(L$"PA
M;2/I$A)TRFLZC-;T9`/:4^C`[F3S+/AUG6\XH-H8M^$3L%#^;-_?#/LN@6PA
M:V)/=GYOM.VN_EH8G,C4[J=UO<24_=0O]$)[]D9IV\WL<.K]1ZVF(]!$_P*+
MECV]NMU*Q?%6FR\;R]+3B<<52"SP^*LZ>;B7:4V89T`_(8H=NI9#R99_H'A[
MN2];HRUT_1%'RU[46NY)A>$)5#)W)(-95=T_8U$:<I?.>IY=E2QYF)'+<T3E
M'8;@X_+HF/;=4L7P+`HTRR0!P*>SZC;=SUG0Z?JSLUUC@+;WLUG\V&*['%^T
M*H^?8)`^NY!)YO<"4+(K@9`K.`68$P8,-\0=(%@N]@S%<JFABFL@?8L#+&M7
M[+U<4-=U;&?M1,#XD3[[F2S[L)=A7UU!Y/FE@&8/TN)@3WA8PM"`KCB^.[J2
M<[NB[<Z&(*P+J?B6,*4\%UL).Y$1EO,X?%?3T$U`#R5,^Y]V&NYK:T>2)QL>
M1K+-UX4Q/*;/2RWUAX&N8Y2\V\TT%V`2/J:]G43A6?.^_V\[A6R&4AUO6T^M
M^0Z'9VVWW5_U7?D*!L/"(%&%<7ZR!$MR>7C'D-W+NQU"F3_':]A"TV=IM$XX
M(!;APZI]1>E[D-WA2G:A2SML=U"7IU@<WQ%!VR:P765;%>@3"-NC-;NQW;6O
MQT6P>*:'Z"(BQS**XEC;6)1"RBQ?L_F6^]88I&2#%RJ!YZFP0%@#*-<`PC>@
M>1[08@-75(AVU[*VZ,L68*EE2X1Z+[5MS)?[L^5EK^_/ZO)CN^BR)+H[V(.G
M:CQ?,$6[HFSX:9661X!@I='MO<S<3(*W`\R6MON[5-LN?$SB^[;:L\%_5V>Z
ME]:VW1]';-IW52^NPCJWR')V+SBKA$MK.5[DCA+MRF[3*KQMKN_:&=)&KS3N
MD&)@-O/5U[25N$'4&$MZ7FG9XE?4/^)V!D]97:K*@;%5'TA;/F577=#(M[1.
M\+<O^"4V]%`6F@NI#;M,R5F7#]CGT]CIB`8E^R7O[?`]WCM'<3L\1I><3^$[
MF3DY-H3`FDLY$WI]_U`[;NQHMU$D*_]>7;;5TWX<#[&W-;V\LZU@;&W8K72N
M^R@<A]-Y3J%ER%_68>VCRI<<@`+).WP"7J^VV!U7%ECV]H6*X(0B8.Y,)/B0
MG>5Y5G@N8=N]Y8:->06#Z+5NKA+D,"1_E#OVOZH\.K8(0QNT6I#%VTXE2#8*
M`!X`AH&R@0&4;70K0&!NN`%)SG(]$R(TJE+S]T2V\,$KZ&5B8`>('R*2?Y&R
MC_,M#N3$,B<_IM^B@[P]@*KQ8:X`<]'E,1P$*0V/XHC<$07MNQ2JZ1S]P2&X
M#2C9"/0TB>$QJOT63[?IAD.82^^7:S_WK]Y_LPO#_5"*\41CO5R:'5U9RQ+X
MHLJ."')=GBI[`C99VSU]$YUA?<\'4P6P_90.S=^5Y85DF:75DZ7(JPU0/(\$
MV+O07+-])>=ZUE33W5?TD]IV$1K'TCMJ8#[7?'"+VTUX5$[N0$B??02(=Q%9
M8O>;N!&65HPW=/_AYN1QMFQ[O>L'%!0G12]P"X7C+;KR+)QGV0>3'0NJJI]#
M<BRKYTU;DZ3UN5>#`PMJZFQ7\F)M`08N98"1/$"S!EY@=?_M++1IKV/TO5!7
MYEJK`H0FR<<B-4<`\KV@`+QO\I03VW:M_G\)H)95=_6%\7$@5GP'4!.`Y,$L
M2$-!Y$CC!?#]'I7N/$P6HUX#;/F:)'H8P.X.B4*79@M]T[-U?80H&:TM@(=P
MC`$SA%&BZ.3NX%DD@8."N#Z+L+P1I%G1$X%`1:3Q(J!N76\"DID(JC>&+:OY
MX"BK>\0`!Z')>93!5/R?ENA*2$"SY#M5N75O<OA^BQ"X(8=O75=T9_P2:;JH
MR?9GDL+'U7N%<X^01QF2%=<=:<P+$GW7YUCH7V!IKR^01;@"?)5X5GVH#DKJ
M'=>:O<E=)M)W%$"1!D\7Q#+B?(WO>!\Y(O@([N0#:65`K4,$#>:!!(0?BA;I
M/QL1O1X170WM^)X3XP]6H8'64O\+220.Z4/:+-`%<#;:&L]-]6<#VQ(H4Z))
MUF%FI!<@=0?`@WJ,=`U(A+58_#,ZQY+>KK^1]IV2R:AX=H#@3-,1M-OR'%A+
M!BZ[F5(@.Z'&\5`Y.\7W$0?21?62HP<P]4+*>:U7\B*N9XPF/]H!`E*"5\`"
M+]M_'6QX\H#+.KH\NXD=G/4"[R\@VI>XKLWGF8\?R`[5]#^K%\$87Z'5)%Z%
M4?F#N7T-[+FV5G13*]]^>%N$7F;(KJDL'Y=1N;JC+*6<IH!F>1@YP%JH8V_-
M9VD3]#G[KR=X[JMNUV#+/(9J^1_#=0,YQA5%NYJMK<N;N>@^CE'9!*XI7@3K
M.\NVJ]F'5CASMN@K6))],4&UK25DRDAR44,YH2G8V=N*H#T7;MMR3UW/,AA)
MNP&K,4"R/SDX3.,Y5),K46WC-:NC1ZBYOB0!1BW],]*T%<<+;NBU6H(#&/@@
MR.#`L0X8<3AH6N"DL)S,5Y:S1Q>Y?,$'Z[[6J`$&(NN3\_BBZ[B2ETB3`WA*
M_4/[6#Q<R683X,S_L^EW:3_'$PRN!XL<3QW05N$X!<5PN/Y]?+NI*'FM,KN0
M(_J?.3J*G$X^:UB<T`/KT[JV]U;_/&-V`]/NY-@M9;Y'2QVYVCD<<Q&P@'UX
M51'N2!B>`'R97<?VP?BVB6)A5?2CFN#K<(4O"7=N*M?J>E;(]%`5PH\AFK/;
MJ3ZMV5GDT4L##)&U73VS<1=41V\S!._0F+;5G<;L?QZ<17C:O(&A:GHK=`3U
M$PD9"?4C01%XS`P@*:,)UG#)CN)2Q"O+V5H/*F\D0YL23A@0!N9XH5DT/J^*
M`38EY9@W8-`FH]62DOR#9]O!?!='\!%2\A9BX,,$4__OD_64[/0.EG4</<)9
MGD0@6-1W\2V[WT0HNH6Y710`:8(A94\W8`(OV",P7/-07]O-WGA_3T+T2@''
M)((^"W9;NL.]"(8WH'6G\`LY+CKY&078Z9&6<\"CXPZX!E,MO*1V<K1=>1_#
M%G55O>Y@6M!G0H,GZ_8(:]E?__"#?Q`\>^H803D/&^4Y6KXCP,"<&1L,,^=2
M"H5R'%RSA_,P_F,I:ZNEXLP9__<#!H?SE^^*RPJ*-0*'1J!]$0AO&T\3Y%2&
M^\,%,/BDV(,':L^U_$(0T`!U3-0L%#)(I@]N9T$SL\#X)]PS7C;8LY)[IB@[
MAVH_L"07->U&*HXC(5!>C],=E07KJ73%5V&:[>F7`"/QEJ7^^PJF"^F#5ZJW
MA*W.!M_IW;X%_NX,I$V]A)/&`92>[2]E8YCR4/9]1]7N.2"R+MG,V$%,MM5_
M<H`]?^79"1W)C_N+XN_]@\J2P]CGS_9V0C@P.]BVN>Y`MWW.Y;L8%]B2ODL1
M'8T);2AV*D6TH)8&0K%Z+</(]EQ=334T$6GK+_@\+Y=XKL*&L.S:I_0SG516
M/ND-;LE#>:.';C[@\3P$]W"VDQ""Y^B2S7V1HUR$PW(9:7`=BF8)XRX:SQUY
MJL7]EB`ZJX3`S7G&!!W\)&[EB.:":CB))X#NXP'L:/(OP4[:9L691`$D,X"@
M!Q(`X2-J%I`%-'6A/#H^$NE>*HO/,H226&YB<D6#]?0`_95HIQQ0!"M;5R?(
M'+]6!R,Y:DD0I7<<6D%R6WUT79_I$P'".L,!9P;D\-G&L(<ALFSIJXV^-_=/
M:[3=6K"'ZM$FJC8&[Q"A^)4URYX=@"A+XEK9H]`5)U8'KX)SK.YYG%0;JJ?O
M`+*9PE04S>YB+5,!)O-O2YC1Y%G^?@@V[Z`!\"8&%"\$L>3=+0!L-KF3N;?,
MG\;KNK$@6-CK.+8ESZ\U'=="L+X>-B;[D,H@:1.$>D82^;9`M:7'+K#&M(L)
M#7]&,F4*]&N"E&#/@0Q0(F,!XZ4`I)T"C0!N_Z3!<P,1N/HO143GPV3?195+
MX),1TM1$V6EM^W^`YJ8MY0D<CD,C'4ZZUZ,]R9D'/"(CW$7'X:ER</;_$%YR
M'LON0`DNV__;_Z__>XBY35O[HUR+A=^%C&8K)Q088FIG%\T,G,CY;5+R.G.V
MG:HH%`P[_@-OV_?88G`^0O$%]KT."L_ZBL)-S(C.*B(QZ8'48!YC9+&B_U+O
MC0C/1.S!`,E:DD1@4M=VK.#DLHV!'A(6;+FFOT<(V=M*A$7ZOK9<=,!2/YTU
MV8K=R;V?(@Q7U03Z8-V#E")0)X1)#B"E`X$%`S1NH/5#F$.Q--1G`EHP/_;P
MK>=IFX'CH@[56<66[XHMKU4XOBWC>I=#L^XY>+HI]#W]FH'48P9,(Y/,\N?K
M'UGL^"?%<QN%X1TX*I_%XJT$5Q1<\BKS%MUY1GSS_R4.PT5EV_A67E`/-$BN
M@?>]1\]S+TPP#6-V\@^2:RI-LU@XOY69+J:SO;[_&@?78KC1F;X#:,&YCK,<
MUB?YIA>6[Q$P7-[+<FB";Z1_C;A=5`_'QPRR)_VO;C#\&^EYN<?T2E/V9PF0
M!E21\=D,:\_^1/+\FAU\J8`$ZE$Y,/M@7_Q/=Z2IPPS9BYRJ'9\*(_F7LF3/
M9J&,I;@T`LFJJJCRO+,B#G#67>[@DSBQ(;F>.#L5P+'IX839443%O>V:UV-0
MU)P=A>#X#Q.>WUAH-G\A">W//B[+7L2I\PZ!S'V=FC\+>.S^8,/VQ`/_A_=M
M@3:_(1J/,9[H*ZID]>JD4[W"THZLW6%]LK4WM>(C,!Q.GMW+R[7YJOY=V4X(
M,YU$)?`'??)/(=T[92('%T8/QMF,01ZOIECC^W]E@.73)I#6=A>EYS9:V5MQ
MMK,+15E5^K@!,P\F0GJ<@`$GV"#A3-1@@7,9,#LD$`(;L`=LF,?ZQV4ZEB#,
M+G-",F4D<KGQ@)JHY(\XV]1*REL."((7NAB:X7_]D?PCH3D].QJ?[94!)K)\
MW^!1_!DJNB$DN"P(R(LPT8]8("[%=QV:[?DG/1OMW@]E.5V`XE[-EY3M&`2\
ME7VMKHWT]0MI>QR#P*69T62N(<%]L;;/@).5/0XZN8.A30?4!Y=B95<^L:QL
MKC$-:)-!-G5M`X2QT3^A#%N>XS^"J!UT#N>REAV]%YUIFCTIV[*V1D+1;7@*
MMNE"**HA'.--9T6XQGD+:_88+L]P9P4(Q5!C'_E^("N'-I7;ZLIQ?;)K.V$X
MD5'V:YQK0?Z<QG,&MLU-4%P3V)?[=G4*Q97,[;+&Y&=HWP'0#H>T9D]2MLT]
M@[+=@>_9`7(T37,=M,W1"23W9A@6];MDTU/4R7?M$M_FVDQ`O8_G\D=-LZ*J
M?KC`8V=YC"KQ&QLL%Q"W+>ZE"1;;LR?)D>""`:N7819X`APL02\3D$NIRCM@
M9%OJ$"K9TJX&VL+>`BON+ML;7=E?A>4I`XZ)LZ<H`#0@2?^?RIV;1C#5VDI<
M+D@Q?%P.D*_X+E_U1SO'IBY*18*__<&UN89[:(/7NZ('_#]BSCXBX3H'#.E?
MWFQ1>@VINF+_\,[HL!R:S;Q7!>4)8C;SGL[G.1R"Z$ZR'=*S.T@A/,,4;.38
MYKN)"H2K"K;BW06V]TK;B^3;UUV?##;D:[OJ:KGG\:)]6E0^SC.L@?@)@'5C
M/[`5#VS;<=7!$P`X>3WR3!Y]2;Q-[V+S79`)8S5G9262/N@@!`D7>A0^@E.1
M$#H7:!H2#!]`"Z2AB9[A-/W>8FA`K`&)#-'NW@%`\,,!#]S9IGBSRW)8MV>]
M=>"`+EZVZS!$)Q38;J#(=N77!9GM\34ON!W&Z"+#@FA;8K"0/:8-=H"T(@U5
MHG$C@NQF$)XE?0&9YR[2>57_IF2DA_9'\CW@MX`AI<EWH3*']EI>A!48^BO>
MG1#!M?F[)99O4H0&<51%K7D!%4;NZ-=LR</1DB_[?!'QTNRA1LNN_M10/FPB
M>[M^M]!9;F@-UO0_YFR/I99D<#NNKQ\$P7]LKOL0.)XBLVRQ)@!!>:/'<4*/
MX],$@565Q9U!F+JR"QFR]1HK=)=%8BQ6)W"+W*'!(33'C0!\WZ)!PZ`!4'(4
M"R#A9`+`8'>!X#"<`M0+<%UN&PAF8YG$G]-9SBIP+?@20_8'O>OQBNBH?+9C
M>'36UH5V49+MK\E->'L)JL-FN2$!F)<YME)9X7\UJ>;2MFWHHY`L;W(DGY'Z
MCF:)WN7P?6A`-7=;3MQ/9GJC4N'C$"B?->TB>+J%O:612.Q?I#4ML^S<MXG0
MGFPI_Q;M5;9H*N2T`SZ)3>]4MDW^-B2Z<8"J;/9\71N\V.RYL;6]UL]G"5ZA
MQ.4YVFA-'>@RK)4\8)_7LJ^W$>J>[PL>]E_X@/^?*'B^RP26*KN#IOF:*3F<
M7[>R-E>J;HQ@L:!?\KANP(*RV!O(K$FP3PG1=M:%NNR^6#@>86XG];9S$.F,
MI7RIQ'B`S]>!A`?,-1`1"4"!$2"V`TS75C/,<`4J%<(IG@4O?^`G8VMYP[ZH
M)+BHD^YQ?-.)5?L]-?`8:G)VG&/UYVAV)W2T!5I-V*9%GZ*BL>Z56,F[*:I[
MDJ.%!/LW)1[E;>OIIGG.H]RWR;:',3-79,L$CY3UQMX!X7L3("I`$'7;TK'V
M:PY`^R[LVBL.Y'UF*S_E\CF[`Y(Y02$1"$$B0U$*@F#[NP78(^7M)%BV9>\`
M@>-++-T4KJRWU>1$C@+H9-K@08-1COU+%0&NXH$YD"#Y5(`U>=J*A>!#W.ST
MW/)05+;</X]>IF2Y="VRL45('H&+WN%@N0,VLN@E`V2TLYP'E<RO1RRJ3;S_
M&,G%1;:-1Z8+V2"N*&C_$K3?!3C$P#N*V)3"9HPO<?]NXGNOTK'B:L;R[&!Q
M]SL'#U#UO!#?"=RV'<IG_0U;X5APXWL>$/1SVO9Z9I3!L>&)A>55ZOF7@\OV
M6DU9_@A$RFG[+BGZNK+\E8MW('%[O;G<AH:7WO9)?5O1&PH8KB3:67&^RRK(
MCN>A6O]`CCT(YGJ,0K84RAK#(J'\75(G_0<'?;?M'%#7@9D.WU!E%Q<6]W21
MV"I6:&]P@+FPL(1`VT1^ZO\^,E8'YH$0;(=2$0VDWPO+?;T^35!4##K`$[M`
M3!_0;@MX`H;J[*3V-4X9E^\><(%H<$A(<')D.0BU#6%MR<LFA&'$@-RW/[(^
MU>V?I&S'>_MM\\A+TQ6GP):)5==W<,$Y@&;SL)_3R@#V+@-Z`*,S(")S@.3]
M/3A->L<?^-$[H")K;_LKQ994SQ7U(YYC0=]-C*:XIR"SU7TH)1H8M,>]/?6-
ML#EQ`!^?+@BV8+\C>)19Z&4*%8#R@0*$!@FR)$$U7U,@LNY6G/(.#(Q,CGFZ
MS2RW<_C^J98<G`#ES_U?:CV/YQI6?HF):GB="38D9[+6W9V=G9B2?-RP__L%
MS9+?N'8&%8`X223--9RV_%2+>D&-ZX@VN@K(>.=81><,D$Q)M)NDA&*VEV$U
M/B?=&X5MNN;^'15"3N$L*_I=G,HX,!4JD!XE^8B'Q%6=6UE7"9E>H<C>)$=R
M`\66UH10*';B/W';WNUI'V)#VM`7BIK/*;C,`5$-$[ST.XJ<SV,HLN-*MI2O
M\MHEI'BH&.?$<I[M78;61^LV_A<9@CWUJ:!<K'\5!=O!A>WCSDT'5W,'3[X2
MSG-,?=G=]:\L7H)=26RQ?EVGBV:"^$`=M<%MF$)^K,G66*J5(.^"%5+5MP20
MX"@/`*@D@'R%X3F$MRS[Q@$YG`SO,&`40$+1%#?9L?UP=M9HJNS)_;UHI4<[
MC!3:EFSZ9V/V&VGD/T3+(XRQ./NH+WB)37,A27`H1W0^;W(&7[#Z&N8N\BWH
ME'<1DEF0]%Y%MRWNJF`9\V$.IK5I$U4[I!B*&SLH5O188CCK:@U-X/J>P"V5
MV_-I)MFR/L;B6-\7H'0+!(7RMBZ<`HS5E(5-[3T'UB2N^E`Q2R#MJ`*!Y6_E
M;SOZ!']TZ/[]%;['`S5;^R]'8(EE<7!(H<A]#9;#\%FRTCS<X_,27;/PQWW)
MXWRR6_4O[MPZ:R>-[_#V9.F5U]V=+I&9%O=$*L>"4@.=;7TM;?.YD]P\H#51
M$9#`[`#8`BM8;48E5")_."Z<V344DNH\`Z(@7";V\NQV;&+Q+CS7SY")>R+!
MJ9V9+'H54V2;8GXY%<'D49)V>CI53`HG)F1SZR\N"-]C1ON^BZ3K@(?"T1O(
MTQ`V&">Q>U"_!PH:N<F%"DR.,T!11P\80E+]@0!MW4O\S^T4S2:.W-\G7>W9
M]Q3;=&6MI=M[!IS!(TW6U@UP0EV^;=H+)7L[OWVV0%6%P!,)T2#6HR2FI_XO
MA&"[+\1Q5=\F]W&2]IL!/(CM%=W5+@>%<`"8ZRE,EK\-D/=):*P]W[E_M(-&
M'F1K$-`,Z3LP.L+(P(0F(`KL1+6_>!V?<$`H0,H`W0+\Y;9[$;(S&#"&U7*J
MK7(JY4JXU3UTOQ'N+4[+HVS[X'_A_UEH?@@N:[X:DGBC!LY73#AY=C90<@*?
M9V8:S+8-S`.%@`YKV86PV2<LP0\4MEFY&>0WOF_=)6^AWK:;O[K_<E=;<8'P
MO0$3]#!6]QFX:$6?(85T#5?[KW2Q..ZK6EJ%[2UU%]Q9K2]&X$B4';:_6/#E
M@9K2;>L*F'ULT.XDU3W<X=$&5Q.\-WCNX@:QB@F42P&HB?TS\]I-98ZYD":G
M!X#B'[1D$J_-&<,:'!>;.`8';/^T0,L?"&Q?SM\,6Y+ZW(H-SMMXR?_,NZJ@
M3:\#O9[/">YS1<XU[6F0R-EXV1=-^X2J3:^B7@D-;E+>'I_BLWNPDO/Z=P5#
M6?=I_NUYMOZ#M7OI`%Z^<P!<W-VT->ZZCK:S]_2VUTA=B1V)=G=<=")#>YBP
MS4OS6C8KRMPEU?94K,B3K2Y9T'E!-C#-4[A"`)'@)I+F5OF]8@?;`M\GT?G_
M%U:5D?I6+#,A6^4;VQ:$5QCF_7[VU"33"M_D.D"&>Y*4S:T7Z:G-M?*86LXG
M>:]\`Y(V!`!85OJ^(FA/D^.LN>.*[OD)>'0G?C(FZ"$X!VD>;IB'`Z/\'@>3
MB.;DW94.06:%]=E>+86A*&6!+#+-#!/FF+!_G"VY-0B7)`CD>`R1P'_H`K,Q
M!XE@7)337H4#Y$<!,B%$MP$(.1^7YKU*V;DA0C]UPUL1R<4%PG[!KL))'$`6
MH-?"_N`U3,O37)I[>8(@B5'\&?MWL.SMH@U-"\L\MY*WF[*R2<C+X51'\VY:
MW!$6_=Q&]!`9;)1N0P>G09U;[&>8?TL\VX_QSR@`\M4+DNQY-GKT!`:`CR&C
M3U@@_1,'[NXF5YC@J@;98>%DHZDRP!#!OY.SO_"9`.2!JZB4V6(XZK^E?QV[
MW^.Y#RX;5&-Z/=LU,RJIA.+[$,=T>E0VO;;Z'P8N.SG3]FVF8^,'#N@Z0,69
MA9=]$6<ZMTL1PF9*DJ[ZCLA/.A1YVL6L.RHN6:6H'MIV>-7F6(4@VR!-CBO:
MSF55IY"U#0R+V@N4")]3L9T-&!T)GKT]P2^.*:+`T1TR2WQZ.\(LO>8]_@P@
MK`,_D!C`$\IW57+T-I>D`4'DV7W8FDP[K&W?9@<[:\H!!ZUE;S<\N=-V3T4R
M637`[]O_5"6M[,U,3<8ZX#36/^`/V_,Y5;L65S/"TV%?L^'R'[:*7J*W6/!5
M.-][C,VK)9OO/P/G&JFJDF,+JO.3!G#<H>W[\/[IMHJ5.W<G07NU1T`%NR=0
M]FA+>]J`2[;DPLXMIV_7GRB_]=_EZ1=)9F5?)T^&.G0-G<T/O5%@4`G6K^==
M.OWZD$</F0CMLH%?MZG5UW#[-D)8N#G*3@^V.Z,MCP"B"3PKMFAW4NQ2AL_?
M&J&-I+%@]&($R"2"85)`4U<-,""F*N!&GU6@K-VQ9Q=05Q?D)@[?W1PL>^-6
M#2I9MAC6!<Y:=WG#KN[C^I=GUW;M#89MV@O2V?<PQ]YMV&O<>Y-G?S+L<)X=
MPK,=JA=T->SLIEW!LUL8I@UN&_99LR?''NW851T[KV,K\TL/?*U'AOW.NLUK
MJV&'-.Q]IIW8L"-;=QW#=NT&UUP[CJM,('O!#L/V67\=:&K8QUW[B6%',^VK
MKNRHCOW6N[]ZFR,^X-,F>V`2)VH@\N]:D#1`M@?G7'L^A?2!Y>:G"="H07[/
M3NY*-(*O;WQPW[4=IA_,=!<U[G0/%CN*//#LUXX]S[`O>[<BW/4@HVG;2I;L
M!L;D!T\-V]MC/3CCR-34=C1KJ;9\DSU3W_ZU(*9EY[!L?[JL02;+MB<W:&[8
M3UV1N,H+<OEV'_^DM&4;@Q^D-FQ_=H/ZAFQS=H-;IN2QCIW*GFT+<F4GB&_:
M?QV[AG4[R^SJVWJ^+9X6&((;-#7L)0++5(\F,PP>&>K:37$!`8P+!*:`F"3&
M(/?@0UGJ#?!`47FH6&F`"L:=P<MW!BJ(-^BKX0JE&%<1.QE=CD,P@*HP:XN9
ME@J<0D#U"I<RP`L<RS&$JFL@1-^P[AVJ7,YJWT%T;`\I;O@1]UXB20,\43J9
MK.(X0!7_SI(5!>>PAH>1*Z&$"K@!TKCA^WAC&/%."@2UK7S'O_L8RH'*T,$M
ML1/]`DZ.W[<?R5*\4>'EN8T[DQ;,G6)Q1/-0'I7`L!T@`Y2RMT\IX)*L<5G)
M!0UOA<4.\,JW8]GW+`_$`+D:&=[+60Y6!<IR&%*R-G0@F\K3A'A?HZ"\S=W^
M9LDNYR!ZG4(J83?L>>;L>QRR^_FD`0*ZVP6MNA,J8SI4@9_@[&QX14L[H]*L
MXHYN^,B,4)S-R2UMV3$-Y9H1#=]IR_YI;P_UM9=:VD]UQ@!1/<E5Z51G5;F9
M^+9RV$B&CY4!=:#JC`'6^K+?QC-\KF7?-6;OM2H#!#8">[!C'_9I7NS?C>T[
MLGE?MNS-'M^=S>70:F6`TH;DTP[?JUW!K16X`6*+(`>H;8V^[=ZYQ5XC.YOD
MWF;P`7X;Z?YMR@YN@!I@N&$7SZU5^:(%T@TT"C;3)1A*5C>S*N@'XT3-U@/-
MMDP/2'8+RR2!92\1;2WY!-$VNM-8)M[S89>R3!1W/9AEXKWE_5*=^Y9MWK!N
MTX)L^I9L6;ENI98]6Y=M6#G5X)S!J=`^)T59[IPG`K7FTS0$;_)LK7T9P^_9
MUN[X,ZO0ONM>SCH@=`/2ET5*X$(A)%!+`P0*````!@`J4W<>)*/FMM8)```.
M$@``#````%133TQ904Y)+E185`T"`1(C%!4V-VB)FML\!082$T3%]I;WJ:(M
M"Y+JW+=L\X9UFQ9DT[=DR\IU\[SSPBUK-NS8L@T5]NP1')3N%;SZ=]JY(,V^
M=4L7Q/&W#9O6S;$&(>QI[98E8[WEOFT+DHZWNWU+MTSWVE[,O6A;N&GE&.^W
M9IH[U+)TP[(Q%NO;3?,^&[9M6;%OWZYU"1)D4)!CW\+-8UYIF_#1K^C=YGN[
M):/M=-^"K(/\<N?T+^,-$NW;NR#9(&LZSP]B6<]QWG794&\QSKKN'/6E[$[\
MK=C#C-UVT'=9-N,[S+_/8;O9S&\YU].-NKL)<KM!WG3GLN#><[#./.2-6>G=
M<M"'\[XS58&;^@[S==OI^W*^G8V]#17]21=25D@M?L-%@T[Y;[APXIZUF;G9
MR/^<J']%?&5_&"QWW;9BAAY7/Q/GNV7A3$7=<O943,W?LA].EIMLW3'!+C8/
M6L.JC-1GPE3&BDE*ZZ*JU[`=15Y;I3VJ1_3##9-73C%SQY2)XULH*_5?P7S5
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MO<[QKB*\ZT1S.\7;BO`JONRU[G>.]Q7A5?PQ:WP[GCF'<%M>AV\4H>TI$V9Y
MWGFD,\^AK'=,FS#LWV8,XC'FZSG>6H17\26K)9V.E[.F#.(Y@WB@^62D>PWB
M:8-X]/L:Z6D#?-JD03RH^AGI!CYMWB`>70X\I<T<Q'\C7M[P%F?EC?EY`UK>
M^.MTTR"/^7D3!_'PMLW-F#CF)XZR$T?9(=WB)8[^B2/>YRQ+'/$21__$$>]H
MEB6.>)FC?^:(][!UD`=4F7,&DSW,^,Q!+'/6@.YOH-NQS'D#NH4V?DIM6V0#
M4>I'^LQA]&/P\YP)DH?RRX0AQL=D"6.YCE$]F+.LWC;-_4[[UDWSK+$O@K<3
M2+/+:)@M<_`:QI5WZ4+JLMYD2,6\QVD@HH2#BV.U3F&H*K?F2@_+8M,,>L:M
M0PB;CKM1N]PUC>Y,TP1=@%C3<TXJ0.">,5T(N8!U&4Y@[5XG7+=1_S&,Y'":
MES1[1!%)EY-(,*9:&M\L8QP_8*7VM=N3=.I=AC4A_W/P!<)G`I>>.X:HAA._
M,*5,\67QTDF58D2&K.6@::9`X`J=!E<.A^)'N9KG97QEUV/F;?O'LJWC\L>6
M(VF%XFF_&Z;E)AF0`\9?,DG`LU.XJ2OK=C-6OBFXLU\*AY%BG[DX,SE>%"H5
M*B;5I$:-0"\K=!D@Q["66J:JUZ&3I_DKZHH^%UCU"&J6#N)MM71=U6N@=C("
M.]3O74,=(K>M>>!3SAUG9L8>X>@/@5Y";)!$S%Q=-4V7,*0)HZFAQS[H%G[/
MO8:",D\G\PIZNZ'Z=$A7"V5S\7MM"^MO$7([#<T.=S6%T=RNLW`31<RRHCUI
MF[P.8F&^;HIB>FY8.R-'NQ3:%`K1+X)6X,Q!W+^!/Y,E+$?X/&+KO)LFM,.K
M^JK#TED9BF*L6P'99P!948OUEG2'Z1F1%)Z*LI<96H$;VDV7#<$Y2#K50]W"
M%VT;SU:+K][I-5%;TCI-ZPRE!627S4*0>ATSACD9*`G#7I-BZ%"+,F.[J$-/
M,9.Q;7ZJ@=,@C71N7#[6J]8IP6VX.D'>`/6BWF_3?#3E&((_A71%Y'X3Q)"]
M%ZG7:&);!1/@B^J3N:\B_6)(I@797.]BU7S?\^IS,2^WZY)JJ,YC3`&1"(TU
MK:CJ-JEQ,IZF\(O-?5H]?%!+-YW*IMPI8\>C=70/-%62RL+';RFKF:DS;ZI[
MAUE3H,;HE5&14`C4F2N8X;8;KFTD1_H^41%.)\\>Q(Z-AM/#PF%0`PX(*?7M
M&66+\46MYX#],BWN;+34<)S[U[M?Y0(52[=%'ENL"^/MXLSMLNY:%O5TD^^E
M]";A:^Q[$F9?$Z?3J8V7+9/(8T(5VT2H(FZLEZ%S5&GHUVIK'L.6I9+>=1J\
M//M&)/F;8KJ-^N?Q=07M*`KL?Z8(UR>`7*C;:YZ9@)W?O2;*LHTM#5K!8L^Q
MY73![$DBW>6XBFHOW=RX/%LG,Z?ZK+I$65WZ!OZB=1D.)\NNZ7XV7U0*"C*(
M!*594+,`%8Q8'K/IE*(W=1G4I13%+%XP>F5$6R9"G*0C\124":P,B4MCC2.;
MN.+V/TN4/^8U4RX9$VLI@K<Q8]+9_'JGB+:6'UBNE]8PKEP"LVNVF!DM4\:9
MEPDRSZ0&(A6//YWRETN&->P,G3<$I([-:U%!9:?ZM&F1Z-7B>JQ+%HCA0J"J
MVK[0NFD0M!Z1LX>]F:""E4J[F1TQP%20:NM/(;C3WE"0KB5U6KQV4M:>/M0@
MB%].*E.*V]%I6(2G47I.MQPZ38];1=4ZZS*<GQP*<R5@NXS)53W37L*6UZL>
M915(;Y(I!C2`"PX^U:)+#-H0<@<ET\'/M];RQBL;/&4(:C-FDA?3*JK.$="&
MHA>;]-$R,'<;P]`P8R[#&`AE'&\K*W<9\S&X/(6T:'**+S@(_-0R/F,9X,M8
M!E0:THEE()RQS&TL`V$-GZ/T*(7`E(BDX5]P2%=SHE>AQM!?=?64C76R<PC7
MCVRK^H6OA2B@<[+EAY8Q"R-$?BTC/Y@R\H/RG*-LTIH'^<0P_<D.?!8?6'"D
MF2_>"%H_RR>C%B.[!,&?7/^3S*G5G8(8/TZCLI2[J)T7%?/G"QF-;=;GP`4:
MFRW#;N+VD=Q<J'3:/+<V88T'53X%YH[-X-*D@;<GF%50/N%J[5!XK?-D1AY1
M`.9^P4@4V4.IJ@4_TAM-Q@1P%B#H.&%-[S?5XV%TFX.0:?+8+.XC#:0V0THO
M<Q_AM,D@G6!$%\8=^-U'-K("#Q`$X6O'/DV)7D(Q^!6GAN-(1GIY<DY]9"<N
M9W#:18HRE<J:28Z!5CA]'F='I]LQ*5W3<8,F<^M/$:5,8O+5)AO6E3"#1K)=
M*;/OYDHW<[W64)9<C=-7QC6;D#2FIKR>:A8%7[!HBU<J_VULPQ(O%IN'I=-C
M!2+7R2LP956I3'7$'R=H.B"M7[Z0'J)2Y@;BX^>\[8N5VW"N_84AB^/<Q?MN
MRP;NL)4`U081IS$Y#JHA@`E02P,$"@````$`#U-W'H9L',GI````+0$```H`
M``!214%$344N5%A45.:\89,GC)LT((R\<4.G@8(6$"-*C.C0(14T:>:`R`B"
M#IHR(*04"4*D21$09M*P`6GFC9R.'T$$'%CP(,J%=$"(R1/RS9DR+Z&4"2-G
M3AD7%C_*`3D'S9LZ;,CH!.EQ*4N5932F<0.3(YF,=.2D$5.'3IJ%.BHJ$$G2
MI`LJ6*@D:)'@(L>4*RU.><(D2Q`G2=[&G9L@"`@V8$&\,0,3Y)HR/-N$@0-G
MZYDY+&2665.G31DV(.#(>4.FSA@ZF/7R]0OX+14CA"^"G$G0($(J<NJ4H9,'
M#DN<2!4X3#"W!8@B;J0N3H@51$102P$""P`*````!@!\1W<>%T1WYSV0``!\
M[0``#````````````"``````````5%-/3%E!3DDN5%1&4$L!`@L`"@````8`
M*E-W'B2CYK;6"0``#A(```P``````````0`@````9Y```%133TQ904Y)+E18
M5%!+`0(+``H````!``]3=QZ&;!S)Z0```"T!```*``````````$`(````&>:
B``!214%$344N5%A44$L%!@`````#``,`K````'B;``````
`
end
--*-*-*- Next Section -*-*-*--



From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Sat Mar 25 15:52:36 CST 1995
Article: 201 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: fonts/typefaces
Date: 23 Mar 1995 08:31:58 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 22
Message-ID: <3krblu$4t9@news.bt.net>
References: <3kh85l$lfu@news.doit.wisc.edu> <3kjida$5kd@news.bt.net> <barke002-2203951833490001@dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

In article <barke002-2203951833490001@dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu>, 
barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu says...
>
>Bill Faulkner did a very nice Tsolyanitypeface some years back, called
>"Jakalla." I later redid this but am still not satisfied. Anybody know how
>to make a typefont run from RIGHT to LEFT? 

I expect you need a special word-processor.  Anyone use an Arabic version of 
Word, or whatever?

>Let me perfect them, and then maybe I'll do it.

Mine won't be perfect - probably just usable, as my software won't allow me 
to do anything clever.  If you *did* get all this to work, I'm sure we'd all 
like to see them.
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
Information Systems Unit/AA&T                       Tel:01473 644910
BT Labs                                             Fax:01473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------



From sfoster@cix.compulink.co.uk Sat Mar 25 15:52:37 CST 1995
Article: 203 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!EU.net!uknet!cix.compulink.co.uk!usenet
From: sfoster@cix.compulink.co.uk ("Stephen Foster")
Subject: A Rant from Dave Morris
Message-ID: <D5yyH0.7wy@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Unknown Organization          
Date: Fri, 24 Mar 1995 23:55:48 GMT
X-News-Software: Ameol
Lines: 29

A rant from Dave Morris (fortified by several bottles of Singha beer and 
two generous whiskies) about the quality of submissions to this group:

"For God's sake, why can't people learn the difference between 'its' and 
'it`s'. 'Athi-est' would be the most 'athi' person possible."

Except that I've used the word "God" instead of a more basic term for 
human sexual reproduction.

"'Definitely' could be spelt correctly as well. Use Welsh in future if 
you can't get the bloody English language right. And tell them to stop 
using the net. Oh no, 'diliemmas' is also wrong. Tell 'em to put a 
capital G on genesis theory too. Don't use the word 'heck' either. They 
should use f##k when they mean f##k. That really pisses me off."

"Barker's association of Tolkien with a British gentleman: Tolkien was a 
Catholic for Christ's sake - I mean a Papist! With a strange Germanic 
name as well. Or something."

"Tell them to stop using those little bracket thingies. That really 
pisses me off. It's the worst thing about the net."

"I dispute that the second whiskey was generous as a matter of fact. The 
first certainly was."

Just thought you might like to know.

Steve F
(Raised a Papist, by the way!)


From stevem@mace.cc.purdue.edu Sat Mar 25 23:54:09 CST 1995
Article: 204 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!wizard.pn.com!mozo.cc.purdue.edu!not-for-mail
From: stevem@mace.cc.purdue.edu (Steve M)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: fonts/typefaces
Date: 25 Mar 1995 12:08:34 -0500
Organization: Purdue University
Lines: 20
Sender: Daniel Lawrence
Message-ID: <3l1imi$fq2@mace.cc.purdue.edu>
References: <3kh85l$lfu@news.doit.wisc.edu> <3kjida$5kd@news.bt.net> <barke002-2203951833490001@dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mace.cc.purdue.edu
Summary: Editing right to left

In article <barke002-2203951833490001@dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu>,
M.A.R. Barker <barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu> wrote:
>
>Bill Faulkner did a very nice Tsolyanitypeface some years back, called
>"Jakalla." I later redid this but am still not satisfied. Anybody know how
>to make a typefont run from RIGHT to LEFT? My solution? Make a
>left-to-right font, take it over to an art programme (Adobe Illustrator,
>Aldus Superpaint, etc.) and flip it horizontally. Works fine, but nobody
>could do a Tsolyani book this way.

If you are simply editing... I might be able to help. I've written and
supported a shareware text editor for about 10 years... and at one point
did a port to let people edit yiddish... from right to left. With the
right driver to get these fonts on screen I could code the editor to let
you do all your editing this way. Drop me a note.

				daniel lawrence
				dan@mdbs.com
				dan@cioe.walker.com



From slocum@pentagon.io.com Sun Mar 26 00:22:22 CST 1995
Article: 205 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!nobody
From: slocum@pentagon.io.com (Brett Slocum)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Rule conversions via FTP
Date: 26 Mar 1995 00:22:11 -0600
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 28
Message-ID: <3l316j$3d8@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com


I've made the EPT rule conversions previously published in the Tekumel
Digest archive separately available. Under the /pub/tekumel/rules
directory on ftp.io.com, there are four (4)  directories: GURPS, RQ, 
SNG, and Torg.  These contain the parts of the Digest archives related
to GURPS, Runequest, Swords and Glory and Torg, respectively.

The GURPS directory contains my translation from EPT to GURPS, my
GURPS character rules (these predate the rules in my Pyramid article),
and my GURPS Bestiary.

The Runequest directory continas the previously mentioned RQ rules
>from  Sandy Peterson.

The SNG directory contains Swords and Glory descriptoipns
for all the creatures from EPT, plus another list of creatures gleaned from the 
adventures published by the various Minneapolis groups, such as Tekumel
Games.

The Torg directory contains a Torg description of Tekumel.

Enjoy!

-- 
Brett Slocum   http:/www.io.com/user/slocum
slocum@io.com
See my Magic: the Gathering and Illuminati: New World Order
trading lists at the above home page or email me for a list.


From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Mon Mar 27 19:59:28 CST 1995
Article: 206 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!cs.utexas.edu!news.sprintlink.net!uunet!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Rule conversions via FTP
Date: 27 Mar 1995 08:31:14 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 11
Message-ID: <3l5t4i$5gt@news.bt.net>
References: <3l316j$3d8@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

In article <3l316j$3d8@pentagon.io.com>, slocum@pentagon.io.com says...
>
Thanks for putting all this stuff up, and making it available.  Do you want 
to put the font up as well?

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
Information Systems Unit/AA&T                       Tel:01473 644910
BT Labs                                             Fax:01473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------



From slocum@pentagon.io.com Mon Mar 27 20:08:39 CST 1995
Article: 207 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!nobody
From: slocum@pentagon.io.com (Brett Slocum)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Rule conversions via FTP
Date: 27 Mar 1995 20:08:21 -0600
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 27
Message-ID: <3l7r2l$5ja@pentagon.io.com>
References: <3l316j$3d8@pentagon.io.com> <3l5t4i$5gt@news.bt.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com

In article <3l5t4i$5gt@news.bt.net>, Roger Pearse <rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk> wrote:
>In article <3l316j$3d8@pentagon.io.com>, slocum@pentagon.io.com says...
>>
>Thanks for putting all this stuff up, and making it available.  Do you want 
>to put the font up as well?

It'll come... all in good time... and your little dog, Toto, too. :-)

Actually, I hadn't thought of the font, but I do have a .WAV file
of Barker's original pronunciation tape that was made in the early '80's
that I'll put up with his reluctant approval. (Reluctant only because of
the poor tape quality.)  And Rob Dushay is trying to send me his
updated AD&D conversion.

The question of compression formats has come up.  Would I be
missing a lot of people if I only used .ZIP and not .Z? I can
only keep one copy of stuff due to space restrictions.  Can any of the
Unix decompression programs handle .ZIP?

Watch my Webspace for future developments!


-- 
Brett Slocum   http:/www.io.com/user/slocum
slocum@io.com
See my Magic: the Gathering and Illuminati: New World Order
trading lists at the above home page or email me for a list.


From barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu Tue Mar 28 20:26:10 CST 1995
Article: 208 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!spool.mu.edu!umn.edu!dialup-3-201.gw.umn.edu!user
From: barke002@maroon.tc.umn.edu
Subject: Re: fonts/typefaces
Message-ID: <barke002-2703952111080001@dialup-3-201.gw.umn.edu>
Sender: news@news.cis.umn.edu (Usenet News Administration)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dialup-3-201.gw.umn.edu
Organization: University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
X-Newsreader: Value-Added NewsWatcher 2.0b24.0+
References: <3kh85l$lfu@news.doit.wisc.edu> <3kjida$5kd@news.bt.net> <barke002-2203951833490001@dialup-4-68.gw.umn.edu> <3l1imi$fq2@mace.cc.purdue.edu>
Date: Tue, 28 Mar 1995 03:11:08 GMT
Lines: 28

Re: type fonts. Getting a font to run right to left is very difficult,
apparently. I even spoke to the engineer-sahibs at Microsoft and whoever
it is that published Fontographer. Nothing availed. They all mentioned
Hebrew, Persian, and Arabic, but those programmes are directly configured
to accept features particular to those languages and not to others. I
suppose it could be done, though. One needs a programme that will "kern"
the characters, place vowel diacritics in the appropriate places over and
under the consonantal letters, and put up with a HUGE inventory of
character shapes (I used all lowercase, most uppercase, most option, and
most option-shift character positions). Salarvyani was even worse. I got
the characters all in, but they never worked right, they never kerned
properly, and I never could remember where the hell they were on the
character keyboard map! Yes, it can all be done, but it ain't easy...! If
you'd like to try, say, a Tsolyani font, you're welcome to have at it. I
assume you have (or an get) a copy of the old Gamescience sourcebook, or
the Tsolyani grammar/dictionary, or even the earlier EPT version. These
all have the Tsolayani script. As I said in a letter to somebody here, I
myself did a prettier production of Livyani, and my Sunuz script pleases
me mightily. I still ought to redo Salarvyani and have a whack at
Mu'ugalavyani. I don't want to spend all my time on these projects,
however -- more important Tekumel things to do! What's next? Let's see how
Tome's attempt at the roleplaying game turns out. I may then do up a
module or write something else historical (hysterical?). I know, people
want me to get back to the third novel. I only wish I had the energy, the
passion, and the willpower to do that. Maybe I will, though.

-- 
MikeBarkeley


From aramen@aol.com Tue Mar 28 20:26:11 CST 1995
Article: 209 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: aramen@aol.com (ARAMEN)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: RE: Tsolyani Font
Date: 28 Mar 1995 10:35:17 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 4
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3l9abl$58s@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
Reply-To: aramen@aol.com (ARAMEN)
NNTP-Posting-Host: newsbf02.mail.aol.com

I haven't the means of uudecoding.  Is there an FTP site where I might get
these fonts?  Any assistance would be greatly appreciated.

aramen@aol.com


From slocum@pentagon.io.com Tue Mar 28 20:30:01 CST 1995
Article: 210 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!nobody
From: slocum@pentagon.io.com (Brett Slocum)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tsolyani Font
Date: 28 Mar 1995 20:29:55 -0600
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 12
Message-ID: <3lagn3$71l@pentagon.io.com>
References: <3l9abl$58s@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com

In article <3l9abl$58s@newsbf02.news.aol.com>, ARAMEN <aramen@aol.com> wrote:
>I haven't the means of uudecoding.  Is there an FTP site where I might get
>these fonts?  Any assistance would be greatly appreciated.

I'll be putting the Tsolyani font up at /pub/tekumel/tsolyani.zip on
ftp.io.com.  It'll also be available through my Web page.

-- 
Brett Slocum   http:/www.io.com/user/slocum
slocum@io.com
See my Magic: the Gathering and Illuminati: New World Order
trading lists at the above home page or email me for a list.


From rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk Wed Mar 29 07:21:11 CST 1995
Article: 211 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!news.tamu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!news2.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!peernews.demon.co.uk!btnet!usenet
From: rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk (Roger Pearse)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: RE: Tsolyani Font
Date: 29 Mar 1995 08:16:50 GMT
Organization: BT plc
Lines: 14
Message-ID: <3lb51i$5hf@news.bt.net>
References: <3l9abl$58s@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: horizon.srd.bt.co.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
X-Newsreader: WinVN 0.93.14

In article <3l9abl$58s@newsbf02.news.aol.com>, aramen@aol.com says...
>
>I haven't the means of uudecoding. 

Many newsreaders (including WinVn, which I'm using) support it directly.  
Failing that, get wincode from ftp.cica.indiana.edu, which will do it for a 
PC running Windows.
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Roger Pearse                                    rpearse@srd.bt.co.uk
Information Systems Unit/AA&T                       Tel:01473 644910
BT Labs                                             Fax:01473 642299
--------------------------------------------------------------------



From wndaorcus@aol.com Wed Mar 29 07:21:11 CST 1995
Article: 212 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!uunet!in1.uu.net!newstf01.news.aol.com!newsbf02.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: wndaorcus@aol.com (WNDAORCUS)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Flamesong Q's
Date: 29 Mar 1995 02:03:19 -0500
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 14
Sender: root@newsbf02.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <3lb0nn$l5v@newsbf02.news.aol.com>
References: <barke002-1803951914260001@dialup-1-65.gw.umn.edu>
Reply-To: wndaorcus@aol.com (WNDAORCUS)

Professor Barker said:

>Thanks for rereading. Wish I could get another one out, but DAW doesn't
>want to do any more Tekumel.

When I go to used bookstores, I always look for those two rare Barker
books (so far I've been fortunate to find two "Man of Golds"). Since DAW
changed management (at least I think they did!) a few years ago, they've
also dropped Tanith Lee. For that alone, they deserve to be nationalized!

Seriously, though, I'd support any "Publish Barker" campaign that
develops.

John Till


From slocum@pentagon.io.com Wed Mar 29 07:23:12 CST 1995
Article: 213 of alt.games.frp.tekumel
Path: illuminati.io.com!nobody
From: slocum@pentagon.io.com (Brett Slocum)
Newsgroups: alt.games.frp.tekumel
Subject: Re: Tsolyani Font
Date: 29 Mar 1995 07:23:08 -0600
Organization: Illuminati Online
Lines: 10
Message-ID: <3lbmvs$714@pentagon.io.com>
References: <3l9abl$58s@newsbf02.news.aol.com> <3lb51i$5hf@news.bt.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pentagon.io.com


The Tsolyani font file is up on ftp.io.com at /pub/tekumel/tsolyani.zip.

Enjoy.

-- 
Brett Slocum   http:/www.io.com/user/slocum
slocum@io.com
See my Magic: the Gathering and Illuminati: New World Order
trading lists at the above home page or email me for a list.


